"Reference","Title","Abstract"

"2. Gut. 2019 Jun;68(6):1052-1064. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-316595. Epub 2018 Aug 18.","Switchable CAR-T cells mediate remission in metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.","OBJECTIVE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a disease of unmet medical  need. While immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells has shown much promise in haematological malignancies, their efficacy for solid tumours is challenged by the lack of tumour-specific antigens required to avoid on-target, off-tumour effects. Switchable CAR-T cells whereby activity of the CAR-T cell is controlled by dosage of a tumour antigen-specific recombinant Fab-based switch to afford a fully tunable response may overcome this translational barrier. DESIGN: In this present study, we have used conventional and switchable CAR-T cells to target the antigen HER2, which is upregulated on tumour cells, but also  present at low levels on normal human tissue. We used patient-derived xenograft models derived from patients with stage IV PDAC that mimic the most aggressive features of PDAC, including severe liver and lung metastases. RESULTS: Switchable CAR-T cells followed by administration of the switch directed against human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-induced complete remission in difficult-to-treat, patient-derived advanced pancreatic tumour models. Switchable HER2 CAR-T cells were as effective as conventional HER2 CAR-T  cells in vivo testing a range of different CAR-T cell doses. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that a switchable CAR-T system is efficacious against aggressive and disseminated tumours derived from patients with advanced PDAC while affording the potential safety of a control switch."

"3. J Cell Physiol. 2019 Jun;234(6):9207-9215. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27599. Epub 2018 Oct  26.","Construction and functional characterization of a fully human anti-CD19 chimeric  antigen receptor (huCAR)-expressing primary human T cells.","Although remarkable results have been attained by adoptively transferring T cells expressing fully murine and/or humanized anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to treat B cell malignancies, evidence of human anti-mouse immune responses against CARs provides a rationale for the development of less immunogenic CARs. By developing a fully human CAR (huCAR), these human anti-mouse immune responses are likely eliminated. This, perhaps, not only increases the persistence of anti-CD19 CAR T cells-thereby reducing the risk of tumor relapse-but also facilitates administration of multiple, temporally separated doses of CAR T cells to the same recipient. To these ends, we have designed and constructed a second-generation fully human anti-CD19 CAR (or huCAR19) containing a fully human single-chain variable fragment (ScFv) fused with a CD8a hinge, a 4-1BB transmembrane domain and intracellular T cell signaling domains of 4-1BB and CD3z. T cells expressing this CAR specifically recognized and lysed CD19+ target cells produced cytokines and proliferated in vitro. Moreover, cell volume  data revealed that our huCAR construct cannot induce antigen-independent tonic signaling in the absence of cognate antigen. Considering our results, our anti-CD19 huCAR may overcome issues of transgene immunogenicity that plague trials utilizing CARs containing mouse-derived ScFvs. These results suggest that  this huCAR19 be safely and effectively applied for adaptive T cell immunotherapy  in clinical practice."

"4. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 May;25(5):e155-e162. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.11.025. Epub 2018 Nov 28.","Patient-Reported Outcomes with Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy: Challenges and Opportunities.","Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are an important tool to assess the impact of a  new therapy on symptom burden and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapies have been approved for use in  relapsed or refractory leukemia and lymphoma based on promising efficacy in clinical trials. However, data are lacking on patient-reported toxicity and impact on HRQoL. This review provides an overview of the incorporation of PROs in CAR-T cell therapy and the specific challenges in this context. The first step is to demonstrate feasibility of PRO monitoring in the acute phase after CAR-T cell  infusion. Apart from core PRO domains like physical functioning, disease-related  symptoms, and symptomatic adverse effects, important measures to consider are cognitive functioning and financial toxicity. Because there are no validated PRO  instruments in the setting of CAR-T cell therapy, universally validated measures  like Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) could be considered, which is also recommended in the setting of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Given the timeline of toxicities with CAR-T cell therapy, PRO instruments should be administered at baseline and at least weekly in the first 30 days. Subsequently, frequent monitoring of PROs in the first year might be helpful in identifying short- and intermediate-term toxicities, functional limitations, and neuropsychiatric effects. The major potential challenge in acute phase would be missing data when patients develop severe cytokine release syndrome or neurotoxicity. Designing a strategy for handling missing data is crucial. The long-term safety of CAR-T cell therapy is not well characterized because of short follow-up in most studies reported thus far. PROs should be measured at least yearly after the first year to identify potential late effects  like cognitive deficit or autoimmune manifestations. Collaboration between institutions performing cellular therapy and engagement with patients, clinicians, and statisticians with expertise in PROs are crucial for setting a comprehensive agenda on integration of PROs with CAR-T cell therapy."

"5. J Cell Physiol. 2019 May;234(5):5827-5841. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27519. Epub 2018 Oct  14.","Predictive and therapeutic biomarkers in chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy: A clinical perspective.","The adoptive transfer of genetically engineered T cells modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown remarkable activity and induces long-term remissions in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies. To date, little is known about predictive indicators of therapeutic efficacy or serious toxicity after CAR T-cell therapy in clinical practice. Biomarkers are not only potentially able to inform physicians and researchers of immunotherapy targets in particular but could also be used to monitor the effectiveness of treatments and  to predict incidence of side effects in some circumstances. Identification of new biomarkers can therefore not only contribute to the development of new therapeutic and prognostic strategies for CAR T-cell therapy for cancer but also  help to generate improved clinical practices for early recognition and minimization of adverse effects while preserving the antitumor activity of the CAR T cells. Herein, we will consider a variety of predictive and therapeutic biomarkers in CAR T-cell therapy and the state of current understanding of their  clinical utility. The incorporation of biomarker studies in CAR T-cell clinical trials and practice will help to realize the potential clinical benefit of biomarker-guided therapy."

"6. Annu Rev Immunol. 2019 Apr 26;37:145-171. doi: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-042718-041407. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Emerging Cellular Therapies for Cancer.","Genetically engineered T cells are powerful new medicines, offering hope for curative responses in patients with cancer. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells were recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and are poised to enter the practice of medicine for leukemia and lymphoma, demonstrating that engineered immune cells can serve as a powerful new class of cancer therapeutics. The emergence of synthetic biology approaches for cellular engineering provides a broadly expanded set of tools for programming immune cells for enhanced function. Advances in T cell engineering, genetic editing, the selection of optimal lymphocytes, and cell manufacturing have the potential to broaden T cell-based therapies and foster new applications beyond oncology, in infectious diseases, organ transplantation, and autoimmunity."

"7. Int J Cancer. 2019 Apr 15;144(8):2043-2050. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31924. Epub 2018 Dec 20.","The landscape of CAR T-cell therapy in the United States and China: A comparative analysis.","The clinical trials of CAR T-cell therapy are growing fast in recent years, and most of the trials are initiated by sponsors from the United States and China. Exhibiting the distinctions between the clinical trials in the two countries is of great value for understanding the panorama of CAR T-cell clinical trials and forecasting the future of this promising therapy. We analyzed the critical elements of 289 clinical trials posted on the clinicaltrials.gov website by sponsors from the two countries and evaluated the efficacy data in available 50 published CAR T-cell studies. Our analysis shows that China has become the country with the largest number of CAR-T cell clinical trials by the end of 2017, while overall subject sample size and study center numbers are still larger, and  the design of the clinical trials is more cautious in the United States. There are obvious differences between the two countries in CAR-targeted antigens in solid tumors and genetic modifications besides CARs for enhancing the potency of  CAR T-cells. Although the currently available response rates are promising in both countries, it is inexpedient to conclude that the clinical efficacy is comparable between the two countries considering the smaller patient sample sizes and discrete distribution of median cell doses in China. And finally, the flexible regulatory regime of cell therapy in China, which expedites the bursting of CAR T-cell therapy, is also firstly introduced in our study."

"9. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Apr;25(4):625-638. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.12.758. Epub 2018 Dec 25.","ASTCT Consensus Grading for Cytokine Release Syndrome and Neurologic Toxicity Associated with Immune Effector Cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is rapidly emerging as one of the  most promising therapies for hematologic malignancies. Two CAR T products were recently approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment ofpatients up to age 25years with relapsed or refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and/or adults with large B cell lymphoma. Many more CAR T products, as well as other immunotherapies, including various immune cell- and bi-specific antibody-based approaches that function by activation of immune effector cells, are in clinical development for both hematologic and solid tumor malignancies. These therapies are associated with unique toxicities of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurologic toxicity. The assessment and grading of these toxicities vary considerably across clinical trials and across institutions, making it difficult to compare the safety of different products and hindering the ability to develop optimal strategies for management of these toxicities. Moreover, some aspects of these grading systems can be challenging to implement across centers. Therefore, in an effort to harmonize the definitions and grading  systems for CRS and neurotoxicity, experts from all aspects of the field met on June 20 and 21, 2018, at a meeting supported by the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT; formerly American Society for Blood  and Marrow Transplantation, ASBMT) in Arlington, VA. Here we report the consensus recommendations of that group and propose new definitions and grading for CRS and neurotoxicity that are objective, easy to apply, and ultimately more accurately categorize the severity of these toxicities. The goal is to provide a uniform consensus grading system for CRS and neurotoxicity associated with immune effector cell therapies, for use across clinical trials and in the postapproval clinical setting."

"11. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Apr 1;25(7):2042-2048. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1625.  Epub 2018 Nov 16.","Immunotherapy for Glioblastoma: Adoptive T-cell Strategies.","Glioblastoma (GBM) is a devastating disease with an extremely poor prognosis. Immunotherapy via adoptive cell transfer (ACT), especially with T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR), represents a particularly promising approach. Despite the recent success of CAR T cells for blood cancers,  the question remains whether this powerful anticancer therapy will ultimately work for brain tumors, and whether the primary immunologic challenges in this disease, which include antigenic heterogeneity, immune suppression, and T-cell exhaustion, can be adequately addressed. Here, we contextualize these concepts by reviewing recent developments in ACT for GBM, with a special focus on pioneering  clinical trials of CAR T-cell therapy."

"12. Clin Chem. 2019 Apr;65(4):519-529. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.258988. Epub 2018 Dec 28.","Immunotherapy Using Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells: A Novel Cellular Therapy with Important Implications for the Clinical Laboratory.","BACKGROUND: We have entered a new era of cancer therapy, with a number of immune-based therapies already used clinically as a standard of care. Adoptive cellular immunotherapy using T cells genetically modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T cells) represents a novel therapeutic approach. CAR-T cells have produced clinical responses in B-cell malignancies that are otherwise refractory  to conventional therapies. Two CAR-T cell therapies obtained regulatory approval  in 2017, with many more of these therapies under clinical development. CONTENT: This review focuses on the current state of adoptive cellular immunotherapy, specifically CAR-T cells, in the clinic and how this therapy differs from traditional small molecule and biologic therapies. Areas in which the clinical laboratory is affected by these novel therapies are discussed. Opportunities for the clinical laboratory to help guide these therapies are also  highlighted. SUMMARY: The clinical laboratory will play an integral role in the care of patients undergoing adoptive cellular therapy with engineered T cells. There are  many ways that this new therapeutic approach affects the clinical laboratory, and the clinical laboratory will likely play a critical role in managing patients that are treated with CAR-T cell therapy."

"13. Hum Gene Ther. 2019 Apr;30(4):446-458. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.234. Epub 2018 Apr 27.","Nucleofection with Plasmid DNA for CRISPR/Cas9-Mediated Inactivation of Programmed Cell Death Protein 1 in CD133-Specific CAR T Cells.","CRISPR/Cas9-mediated programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) disruption in chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells could be an appealing choice to improve the therapeutic efficacy of CAR T cells in an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. In most of the reported cases, Cas9 was delivered into T cells  by way of electroporation with RNA or protein. However, transient expression of Cas9 by transfection with a plasmid encoding its gene is apparently simpler, as it avoids the steps of in vitro transcription of DNA or protein production. This  study tried nucleofection into human primary T cells of plasmids encoding both CRISPR/Cas9 for disrupting the PD-1 gene and the piggyBac transposon system for expressing CD133-specific CAR in one reaction. Based on drug selection, CD133-specific CAR T cells were obtained in which, on average, 91.5% of the PD-1  gene sites were disrupted, but almost no Cas9 gene expression was found in the final engineered CAR T cells. The PD-1-deficient CD133-specific CAR T cells showed similar levels of cytokine secretion and improved proliferation and cytotoxicity in vitro, and enhanced inhibition of tumor growth in an orthotopic mouse model of glioma, compared to conventional CD133-CAR T cells. The described  method could be useful for the production of PD-1-deficient CAR T cells for cancer immunotherapy."

"14. Virchows Arch. 2019 Apr;474(4):449-461. doi: 10.1007/s00428-018-2484-0. Epub 2018 Nov 23.","Adoptive cellular therapies: the current landscape.","For many cancer types, the immune system plays an essential role in their development and growth. Based on these rather novel insights, immunotherapeutic strategies have been developed. In the past decade, immune checkpoint blockade has demonstrated a major breakthrough in cancer treatment and has currently been  approved for the treatment of multiple tumor types. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) or gene-modified T cells expressing novel T cell receptors (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) is another strategy to modify the immune system to recognize tumor cells and thus carry out  an anti-tumor effector function. These treatments have shown promising results in various tumor types, and multiple clinical trials are being conducted worldwide to further optimize this treatment modality. Most successful results were obtained in hematological malignancies with the use of CD19-directed CAR T cell therapy and already led to the commercial approval by the FDA. This review provides an overview of the developments in ACT, the associated toxicity, and the future potential of ACT in cancer treatment."

"15. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Mar 15;25(6):1702-1708. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-2743. Epub 2018 Nov 9.","FDA Approval Summary: Axicabtagene Ciloleucel for Relapsed or Refractory Large B-cell Lymphoma.","In October 2017, the FDA granted regular approval to axicabtagene ciloleucel, a CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, for treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Efficacy was based on complete remission (CR) rate and duration of response (DOR) in 101 adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (median 3 prior systemic regimens) treated on a  single-arm trial. Patients received a single infusion of axicabtagene ciloleucel, preceded by lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. The objective response rate per independent review committee was 72% [95% confidence interval (CI), 62-81], with a CR rate of 51% (95% CI, 41-62). With a median follow-up of 7.9 months, the median DOR was not reached in patients achieving CR (95% CI, 8.1 months; not estimable, NE), whereas patients with partial remission had an estimated median DOR of 2.1 months (95% CI, 1.3-5.3). Among 108 patients evaluated for safety, serious adverse reactions occurred in 52%. Cytokine release syndrome and neurologic toxicities occurred in 94% and 87%  of patients, respectively, leading to implementation of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy."

"16. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Mar;25(3):e76-e85. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.12.068. Epub 2018 Dec 18.","Clinical Utilization of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in B Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: An Expert Opinion from the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation and the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation.","On August 30, 2017 the US Food and Drug Administration approved tisagenlecleucel  (Kymriah; Novartis, Basel, Switzerland), a synthetic bioimmune product of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T), for the treatment of children and young adults with relapsed/refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). With this new era of personalized cancer immunotherapy, multiple challenges are present, ranging from implementation of a CAR-T program to safe delivery of the drug, long-term toxicity monitoring, and disease assessments. To address these issues experts representing the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplant, the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, the International Society of Cell and Gene Therapy, and the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy formed a global CAR-T task force to identify and address key questions pertinent for hematologists and transplant physicians regarding the clinical use of anti CD19 CAR-T therapy in patients with B-ALL. This article presents an initial roadmap for navigating common clinical practice scenarios that will become more prevalent now that the first commercially available CAR-T product for B-ALL has been approved."

"17. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:67-83. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.12.001. Epub 2018 Dec 5.","Immunotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes: The dawn of a new era?","Immunotherapy has revolutionized therapy in both solid and liquid malignancies. The ability to cure acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) is proof of concept for the application of immunotherapy in AML and MDS. However, outside of  HSCT, only the anti-CD33 antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin is currently approved as an antibody-targeted therapy for AML. Several avenues of immunotherapeutic drugs are currently in different stages of clinical development. Here, we review recent advances in antibody-based therapy, immune checkpoint inhibitors, vaccines and adoptive cell-based therapy for patients with AML and MDS. First, we discuss different antibody constructs. Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) and CD47 as well as peptide, dendritic cell and dendritic/AML cell-based vaccines are reviewed next. Lastly, adoptive cell-based therapy including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell and NK cell therapy is discussed."

"18. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:45-55. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.11.002. Epub 2018 Nov 14.","Recent advances in CAR T-cell toxicity: Mechanisms, manifestations and management.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is an effective new treatment for  hematologic malignancies. Two CAR T-cell products are now approved for clinical use by the U.S. FDA: tisagenlecleucel for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia  (ALL) and adult diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtypes (DLBCL), and axicabtagene  ciloleucel for DLBCL. CAR T-cell therapies are being developed for multiple myeloma, and clear evidence of clinical activity has been generated. A barrier to widespread use of CAR T-cell therapy is toxicity, primarily cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurologic toxicity. Manifestations of CRS include fevers, hypotension, hypoxia, end organ dysfunction, cytopenias, coagulopathy, and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Neurologic toxicities are diverse and include encephalopathy, cognitive defects, dysphasias, seizures, and cerebral edema. Our  understanding of the pathophysiology of CRS and neurotoxicity is continually improving. Early and peak levels of certain cytokines, peak blood CAR T-cell levels, patient disease burden, conditioning chemotherapy, CAR T-cell dose, endothelial activation, and CAR design are all factors that may influence toxicity. Multiple grading systems for CAR T-cell toxicity are in use; a universal grading system is needed so that CAR T-cell products can be compared across studies. Guidelines for toxicity management vary among centers, but typically include supportive care, plus immunosuppression with tocilizumab or corticosteroids administered for severe toxicity. Gaining a better understanding  of CAR T-cell toxicities and developing new therapies for these toxicities are active areas of laboratory research. Further clinical investigation of CAR T-cell toxicity is also needed. In this review, we present guidelines for management of  CRS and CAR neurotoxicity."

"19. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.10.003. Epub 2018 Nov 1.","Prognostic and therapeutic role of CLEC12A in acute myeloid leukemia.","CLEC12A has recently been identified as an antigen, expressed on leukemic stem cells and leukemic blasts. Given the fact that this expression profile seems stable throughout diagnosis, treatment and relapse on leukemic blasts and leukemic stem cells, CLEC12A can be considered a highly potent and reliable marker for the detection of measurable residual disease and therefore applicable  for risk stratification and prognostication in AML. Low CLEC12A expression on leukemic blasts seems to be independently associated with lower likelihood of achieving complete remission after 1 cycle of induction chemotherapy, shorter event free survival, as well as overall survival, indicating potential prognostic properties of CLEC12A expression itself. Lack of expression on the normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, in contrast to CD123 and CD33, might result in less toxicity regarding cytopenias, making CLEC12A an interesting target for innovating immunotherapies, including monoclonal and bispecific antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates and CAR-T cells therapy."

"20. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2019 Mar;54(3):485-489. doi: 10.1038/s41409-018-0329-8. Epub 2018 Aug 31.","A dynamical systems perspective on chimeric antigen receptor T-cell dosing.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR T cells) are dosed similarly to donor lymphocyte infusions following hematopoietic cell transplantation. However, the mechanism driving proliferation in CAR T cells is distinct from conventional T cells. As such there are quantitative differences in the antigen response of these engineered cells when compared with conventional T cells. In this perspective paper the logistic equation of growth is used to develop a mathematical basis for understanding the difference between CAR T cell and conventional T cell response to antigen burden."

"21. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2019 Mar;68(3):365-377. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2281-2. Epub 2018 Dec 6.","CRISPR/Cas9-mediated PD-1 disruption enhances human mesothelin-targeted CAR T cell effector functions.","The interaction between programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on activated T cells and its ligands on a target tumour may limit the capacity of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to eradicate solid tumours. PD-1 blockade could potentially enhance CAR T cell function. Here, we show that mesothelin is overexpressed in human triple-negative breast cancer cells and can be targeted by CAR T cells. To overcome the suppressive effect of PD-1 on CAR T cells, we utilized CRISPR/Cas9 ribonucleoprotein-mediated editing to disrupt the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) gene locus in human primary T cells, resulting in a significantly reduced PD-1hi population. This reduction had little effect on CAR  T cell proliferation but strongly augmented CAR T cell cytokine production and cytotoxicity towards PD-L1-expressing cancer cells in vitro. CAR T cells with PD-1 disruption show enhanced tumour control and relapse prevention in vivo when  compared with CAR T cells with or without αPD-1 antibody blockade. Our study demonstrates a potential advantage of integrated immune checkpoint blockade with  CAR T cells in controlling solid tumours and provides an alternative CAR T cell strategy for adoptive transfer therapy."

"22. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Feb 15;25(4):1133-1135. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-3328. Epub 2018 Nov 21.","First CAR to Pass the Road Test: Tisagenlecleucels Drive to FDA Approval.","In August 2017, the FDA took historic action in granting the first approval of gene therapy to tisagenlecleucel. This landmark step brought CAR T-cell therapy to the commercial space and heralded a new era in managing refractory B-cell malignancies and FDA oversight of gene-modified therapies.See related article by  OLeary et al., p. 1142."

"23. Blood. 2019 Feb 14;133(7):697-709. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-10-881722. Epub 2018 Nov 21.","GM-CSF inhibition reduces cytokine release syndrome and neuroinflammation but enhances CAR-T cell function in xenografts.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy is a new pillar in cancer therapeutics; however, its application is limited by the associated toxicities. These include cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity. Although the IL-6R antagonist tocilizumab is approved for treatment of CRS, there is no approved treatment of neurotoxicity associated with CD19-targeted CAR-T (CART19)  cell therapy. Recent data suggest that monocytes and macrophages contribute to the development of CRS and neurotoxicity after CAR-T cell therapy. Therefore, we  investigated neutralizing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as a potential strategy to manage CART19 cell-associated toxicities. In  this study, we show that GM-CSF neutralization with lenzilumab does not inhibit CART19 cell function in vitro or in vivo. Moreover, CART19 cell proliferation was enhanced and durable control of leukemic disease was maintained better in patient-derived xenografts after GM-CSF neutralization with lenzilumab. In a patient acute lymphoblastic leukemia xenograft model of CRS and neuroinflammation (NI), GM-CSF neutralization resulted in a reduction of myeloid and T cell infiltration in the central nervous system and a significant reduction in NI and  prevention of CRS. Finally, we generated GM-CSF-deficient CART19 cells through CRISPR/Cas9 disruption of GM-CSF during CAR-T cell manufacturing. These GM-CSFk/o CAR-T cells maintained normal functions and had enhanced antitumor activity in vivo, as well as improved overall survival, compared with CART19 cells. Together, these studies illuminate a novel approach to abrogate NI and CRS through GM-CSF neutralization, which may potentially enhance CAR-T cell function. Phase 2 studies with lenzilumab in combination with CART19 cell therapy are planned."

"24. Mol Ther. 2019 Feb 6;27(2):287-299. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.11.015. Epub 2018 Nov 20.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor Library Screening Using a Novel NF-κB/NFAT Reporter Cell Platform.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell immunotherapy is under intense preclinical and clinical investigation, and it involves a rapidly increasing portfolio of novel target antigens and CAR designs. We established a platform that enables rapid and high-throughput CAR-screening campaigns with reporter cells derived from the T cell lymphoma line Jurkat. Reporter cells were equipped with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) reporter genes that generate a duplex output of enhanced CFP (ECFP) and EGFP, respectively. As a proof of concept, we modified reporter cells with CD19-specific and ROR1-specific CARs, and we detected high-level reporter signals that allowed distinguishing functional from non-functional CAR constructs. The reporter data were highly reproducible, and the time required for completing each testing campaign was substantially shorter with reporter cells (6 days) compared to primary CAR-T cells (21 days). We challenged the reporter platform to a large-scale screening campaign on a ROR1-CAR library, and we showed that reporter cells retrieved a functional CAR variant that was present with a frequency of only 6 in 1.05 × 106. The data illustrate the potential to implement this reporter platform into the preclinical development path of novel CAR-T cell products and to inform and accelerate the selection of lead CAR candidates for clinical translation."

"25. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Feb;25(2):223-232. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.10.004. Epub 2018 Oct 10.","Manufacture of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells from Mobilized Cyropreserved Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Units Depends on Monocyte Depletion.","Cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation can render lymphocyte repertoires qualitatively and quantitatively defective. Thus, heavily treated patients are often poor candidates for the manufacture of autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell products. In the United States and Europe, children with high-risk neuroblastoma undergo apheresis early in the course of treatment to collect peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) for cryopreservation in preparation for high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell rescue. Here, we investigate whether these cryopreserved chemotherapy and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized PBSCs can serve as starting material  for CAR-T cell manufacturing. We evaluated T cell precursor subsets in cryopreserved PBSC units from 8 patients with neuroblastoma using fluorescent activated cell sorting-based analysis. Every cryopreserved unit collected early in treatment contained both CD4 and CD8 precursors with significant numbers of naïve and central memory precursors. Significant numbers of Ki67+/PD1+ T cells were detected, presumably the result of chemotherapy-induced lymphopenia and subsequent homeostatic proliferation. Cryopreserved PBSC units containing 56 to 112 × 106 T cells were amenable to immunomagnetic selection, CD3 × 28 bead activation, lentiviral transduction, and cytokine-driven expansion, provided that CD14 monocytes were depleted before the initiation of cultures. Second- and third-generation CD171 CAR+ CD4 and CD8 effector cells derived from cryopreserved units displayed antineuroblastoma lytic potency and cytokine secretion comparable to those derived from a healthy donor and mediated in vivo antitumor regression in NSG mice. We conclude that cryopreserved PBSCs procured via standard methods during early treatment can serve as an alternative starting source for CAR-T cell manufacturing, extending the options for heavily treated patients."

"28. Cancer Res. 2019 Feb 1;79(3):663-675. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-1078. Epub 2018 Dec 4.","CML Hematopoietic Stem Cells Expressing IL1RAP Can Be Targeted by Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells.","Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a chronic disease resulting in myeloid cell expansion through expression of the BCR-ABL1 fusion transcript. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have significantly increased survival of patients with CML, and  deep responders may consider stopping the treatment. However, more than 50% of patients relapse and restart TKI, subsequently suffering unknown toxicity. Because CML is a model immune system-sensitive disease, we hypothesize that chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting IL1 receptor-associated protein (IL1RAP) in quiescent CML stem cells may offer an opportunity for a permanent cure. In this study, we produced and molecularly characterized a specific monoclonal anti-IL1RAP antibody from which fragment antigen-binding nucleotide coding sequences were cloned as a single chain into a lentiviral backbone and secured with the suicide gene iCASP9/rimiducid system. Our CAR T-cell therapy exhibited cytotoxicity against both leukemic stem cells and, to a lesser extent,  monocytes expressing IL1RAP, with no apparent effect on the hematopoietic system, including CD34+ stem cells. This suggests IL1RAP as a tumor-associated antigen for immunotherapy cell targeting. IL1RAP CAR T cells were activated in the presence of IL1RAP+ cell lines or primary CML cells, resulting in secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and specifically killing in vitro and in a xenograft murine model. Overall, we demonstrate the proof of concept of a CAR T-cell immunotherapy approach in the context of CML that is applicable for young patients and primary TKI-resistant, intolerant, or allograft candidate patients.  SIGNIFICANCE: These findings present the first characterization and proof of concept of a chimeric antigen receptor directed against IL1RAP expressed by leukemic stem cells in the context of CML."

"29. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2019 Feb;55:87-94. doi: 10.1016/j.copbio.2018.08.008. Epub  2018 Sep 6.","Engineering mammalian cells for disease diagnosis and treatment.","Synthetic biology aims to repurpose cells to sense a wide range of input signals  and respond by conditionally expressing user-defined output genes. In this review, we highlight the latest developments in synthetic-biology-inspired in vitro and in vivo diagnostics and therapeutics employing engineered mammalian cells. Recent work has led to the creation of modular synthetic receptors with adaptable ligand-binding domains whose recognition specificity can be easily tailored to target various diseases. Engineered cells can now sense a great variety of soluble and surface-bound antigens with unprecedented selectivity and  sensitivity, and implanted designer cells equipped with appropriate response modules can successfully treat diabetes, cancer and autoimmune diseases in animal models. Recently, the first immunotherapies using chimeric-antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells were approved to treat lymphoma patients. As this milestone paves the way for translating state-of-the-art synthetic biology approaches into clinical benefit, we also discuss the challenges facing engineered cell therapies."

"30. Curr Protoc Immunol. 2019 Feb;124(1):e69. doi: 10.1002/cpim.69. Epub 2018 Oct 18.","Ribonucleoprotein Transfection for CRISPR/Cas9-Mediated Gene Knockout in Primary  T Cells.","CRISPR/Cas9 has enabled the rapid and efficient generation of gene knockouts across various cell types of several species. T cells are central players in adaptive immune responses. Gene editing in primary T cells not only represents a  valuable research tool, but is also critical for next generation immunotherapies, such as CAR T cells. Broad application of CRIPSR/Cas9 for gene editing in primary T cells has been hampered by limitations in transfection efficiency and the requirement for TCR stimulation. In this article, we provide a detailed protocol  for Cas9/gRNA ribonucleoprotein (RNP) transfection of primary mouse and human T cells without the need for TCR stimulation that achieves near complete loss of target gene expression at the population level. This approach enables rapid target discovery and validation in both mouse and human primary T cells."

"31. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2019 Feb;14(2):115-125. doi: 10.1080/17460441.2019.1559147. Epub 2018 Dec 24.","Enabling drug discovery and development through single-cell imaging.","INTRODUCTION: Single-cell imaging-based assays are an area of active and growing  investment in drug discovery and development. This approach offers researchers the capability to interrogate rare subpopulations of cells with minimal sample consumption and multiplexed readouts. Recent technological advances in the optical interrogation and manipulation of single cells have substantially increased the throughput and sensitivity of these assays. Areas covered: In this  review, the authors focus on three classes of single-cell imaging-based analyses: single-cell microscopy combined with microfluidics, mass spectrometric imaging for subcellular compound localization, and imaging mass cytometry (IMC). They provide an overview of each technology and recent examples of their utility in advancing drug discovery, based on the potential for scalability, multiplexing, and capability to generate definitive data on cellular heterogeneity and target engagement. Expert opinion: Understanding target engagement and heterogeneity at  the single-cell level will enable the development of safer and more effective therapies, particularly for new modalities like CAR-T cell therapies and gene editing approaches (AAV, CRISPR). Successful adoption of new single-cell imaging-based approaches in drug discovery will require tandem investment in advanced computational analysis and bioinformatic approaches, due to the complexity and multivariate nature of single-cell imaging data."

"32. Hum Gene Ther. 2019 Feb;30(2):168-178. doi: 10.1089/hum.2018.145. Epub 2018 Oct 2.","Purification of mRNA Encoding Chimeric Antigen Receptor Is Critical for Generation of a Robust T-Cell Response.","T cells made with messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) offer a safe alternative to those transduced with viral CARs by mitigating the side effects of constitutively active T cells. Previous studies have shown that mRNA CAR T cells are transiently effective but lack persistence and potency across tumor types. It was hypothesized that the efficacy of mRNA CARs could be improved by utilizing recent advancements in RNA technology, such as incorporating a modified nucleoside, 1-methylpseudouridine, into the mRNA and applying a novel purification method using RNase III to eliminate dsRNA contaminants. T cells electroporated with nucleoside-modified and purified mRNA encoding CD19 CAR showed an initial twofold increase in CAR surface expression, as well as a twofold improvement in cytotoxic killing of leukemia cells that persisted up to 5 days. T cells generated with nucleoside-modified and purified CAR mRNA also showed reduced expression of checkpoint regulators and a differential pattern of genetic activation compared to those made with conventional mRNA. In vivo studies using a leukemia mouse model revealed that the most robust 100-fold suppression of leukemic burden was achieved using T cells electroporated with purified mRNAs, regardless of their nucleoside modification.  The results provide a novel approach to generate mRNA for clinical trials, and poise mRNA CAR T cells for increased efficacy during testing as new CAR targets emerge."

"33. J Clin Oncol. 2019 Feb 1;37(4):328-335. doi: 10.1200/JCO.18.01457. Epub 2018 Dec  13.","CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor Therapy for Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma.","PURPOSE: Anti-CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has had a resounding effect on the treatment of chemotherapy-insensitive aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). There are now two US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved products available for treating these patients, and a third product is expected to be approved in the coming months. The question remains: Is there a preferred or best product for my patient? However, answering  that question is more complicated than simply balancing the reported efficacy and toxicity results. DESIGN: This review outlines potential confounding factors involving the three products and their pivotal clinical trials and highlights additional considerations of manufacturing reliability and overall cost that must be considered when weighing one product against another. It will also review the directions in which the field is moving and strategies being examined to improve  efficacy as well as toxicity. CONCLUSION: Because a randomized three-arm clinical trial is unlikely, a product  may have to be chosen on the basis of results from treatment centers that have experience with all three products. But by the time those results are available,  they are likely to be outdated because, given the rapid evolution of the field, the next product will probably have been identified."

"35. Semin Oncol. 2019 Feb;46(1):28-38. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2018.12.003. Epub 2018 Dec 27.","Systemic treatment of pancreatic cancer revisited.","Pancreatic cancer is considered to be one of the most aggressive cancers. For unknown reasons, the incidence of pancreatic cancer is slowly rising and so too are mortality rates. Over 75% of patients are diagnosed with locally advanced disease or with metastases; and more than 95% of patients have metastases at diagnosis or will develop metastases during their follow-up. Despite recent improvements in the therapy of pancreatic cancer, initially with demonstration of the activity of the FOLFIRINOX regimen and subsequently the approval of nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine, prognosis remains poor and the 5-year survival rate is less than 5%. To date, neither personalized medicine nor  immunotherapy, the 2 recent revolutions of cancer treatment, have delivered major positive results in the treatment of pancreatic cancer; and it is especially clear that immune checkpoint inhibitors will not become a major tool in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. There are many ongoing studies, including those exploring combinations of chemotherapy with immunotherapy. Vaccines or T cells modified with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T cells) could also play a role in the treatment of cancer in the future. The aim of this review is to discuss recent improvements in standard of care, major obstacles to overcome, recent results of new treatment combinations, and the most interesting innovative approaches."

"36. Front Immunol. 2019 Jan 22;9:3062. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.03062. eCollection 2018.","Genetically Engineered T-Cells for Malignant Glioma: Overcoming the Barriers to Effective Immunotherapy.","Malignant gliomas carry a dismal prognosis. Conventional treatment using chemo- and radiotherapy has limited efficacy with adverse events. Therapy with genetically engineered T-cells, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells,  may represent a promising approach to improve patient outcomes owing to their potential ability to attack highly infiltrative tumors in a tumor-specific manner and possible persistence of the adaptive immune response. However, the unique anatomical features of the brain and susceptibility of this organ to irreversible tissue damage have made immunotherapy especially challenging in the setting of glioma. With safety concerns in mind, multiple teams have initiated clinical trials using CAR T-cells in glioma patients. The valuable lessons learnt from those trials highlight critical areas for further improvement: tackling the issues of the antigen presentation and T-cell homing in the brain, immunosuppression in the glioma microenvironment, antigen heterogeneity and off-tumor toxicity, and the adaptation of existing clinical therapies to reflect  the intricacies of immune response in the brain. This review summarizes the up-to-date clinical outcomes of CAR T-cell clinical trials in glioma patients and examines the most pressing hurdles limiting the efficacy of these therapies. Furthermore, this review uses these hurdles as a framework upon which to evaluate cutting-edge pre-clinical strategies aiming to overcome those barriers."

"37. Front Immunol. 2019 Jan 18;9:3180. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.03180. eCollection 2018.","Lymphocytes in Cellular Therapy: Functional Regulation of CAR T Cells."," Lymphocytes especially autologous T cells have been used for the treatment of numerous indications including cancers, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. Very recently, FDA approved Chimeric Antigen Receptor T cells (CAR T cells) therapy for relapse and refractory CD19+ B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (r/r B-ALL) and r/r diffuse large B cell lymphoma (r/r DLBCL) upon their remarkable success in multiple Phase I-II clinical trials. While CAR T cells are  considered as major breakthrough in the field of cancer immunotherapy, the regulation of CAR T cells remains poorly understood. In this review we will discuss the strategies that regulate the CAR T cells efficacy and persistence with focus on roles of different structural component of CAR construct. Different domains of CAR construct, for example, antigen binding domain, hinge, transmembrane, and signaling domain as well as immune-regulatory cytokines have significant impact on CAR T cell efficacy. Finally, this review will highlight the strategies that will promote CAR T cells efficacy and will reduce the toxicity."

"38. Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 15;79(2):387-396. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-1834. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Use of a Single CAR T Cell and Several Bispecific Adapters Facilitates Eradication of Multiple Antigenically Different Solid Tumors.","Most solid tumors are comprised of multiple clones that express orthogonal antigens, suggesting that novel strategies must be developed in order to adapt chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies to treat heterogeneous solid tumors. Here, we utilized a cocktail of low-molecular-weight bispecific adapters, each comprised of fluorescein linked to a different tumor-specific ligand, to bridge between an antifluorescein CAR on the engineered T cell and a unique antigen on the cancer cell. This formation of an immunologic synapse between the  CAR T cell and cancer cell enabled use of a single antifluorescein CAR T cell to  eradicate a diversity of antigenically different solid tumors implanted concurrently in NSG mice. Based on these data, we suggest that a carefully designed cocktail of bispecific adapters in combination with antifluorescein CAR  T cells can overcome tumor antigen escape mechanisms that lead to disease recurrence following many CAR T-cell therapies. SIGNIFICANCE: A cocktail of tumor-targeted bispecific adapters greatly augments CAR T-cell therapies against  heterogeneous tumors, highlighting its potential for broader applicability against cancers where standard CAR T-cell therapy has failed."

"39. N Engl J Med. 2019 Jan 3;380(1):45-56. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1804980. Epub 2018 Dec  1.","Tisagenlecleucel in Adult Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.","Author information:  (1)From the Lymphoma Program, Abramson Cancer Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (S.J.S.); the Hematopoietic Cellular Therapy Program, University of  Chicago Medicine, Chicago (M.R.B.); Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, St. Vincents  Hospital and University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC (C.S.T.), and the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital and Department of Medicine, University of Sydney, Sydney (P.J.H.) - both in Australia; Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, Bone  Marrow and Stem Cell Transplant Center, Atlanta (E.K.W.); the Department of Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne (P.B.), and the  Würzburg University Medical Center, Center for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation, Würzburg (S.M.) - both in Germany; the Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Cellular Therapeutics, University of Kansas Cancer Center, Kansas City (J.P.M.); the Department of Medicine I, Division of Hematology and Hemostaseology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna (U.J.); James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute, Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus (S.J.); the Department of Hematology and Blood and Marrow Transplant, University of California, San Francisco, Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco (C.A.); the Department of Lymphoma and Myeloma, Division of Cancer Medicine, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston (J.R.W.); Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, University of Montreal,  Montreal (I.F.), and the Juravinski Hospital and Cancer Centre, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON (S.R.F.) - both in Canada; the Division of Hematology, Oncology, and Transplantation, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis (V.B.); Karolinska Institutet and University Hospital, Department of Laboratory Medicine/Department of Cell Therapy and Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation, Stockholm (S.M.); University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Ann Arbor (J.M.M.); the Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo (H.H.); Novartis Pharma, Basel, Switzerland (S.P., O.A.); Novartis Pharmaceuticals (L.B.P., J.C.) and Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (R.A.), East Hanover, NJ; the Department of Hematology, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Université de Lyon, Lyon, France (G.S.); and the Center for Hematologic Malignancies, Oregon Health and Science University Knight Cancer Institute, Portland (R.T.M.)."

"40. Adv Biol Regul. 2019 Jan;71:79-87. doi: 10.1016/j.jbior.2018.11.006. Epub 2018 Nov 22.","Sulforaphane as anticancer agent: A double-edged sword? Tricky balance between effects on tumor cells and immune cells.","Sulforaphane (SFN) is a naturally occurring isothiocyanate derived from cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli. It has been reported to inhibit the growth of a variety of cancers, such as breast, prostate, colon, skin, lung, gastric or bladder cancer. SFN is supposed to act primarily as an antioxidant due to the activation of the Nrf2-Keap1 signaling pathway. This enhances the activity of phase II detoxifying enzymes and the trapping of free radicals. Finally, SFN induces cell cycle arrest or apoptosis of tumor cells. Here, we discuss effects of SFN on the immune defense system. In contrast to the situation in tumor cells, SFN acts pro-oxidatively in primary human T cells. It increases intracellular ROS levels and decreases GSH, resulting in inhibition of T cell activation and T cell effector functions. Regarding the use of SFN as an anticancer agent we conclude that SFN could act as a double-edged sword. On the one hand it reduces carcinogenesis, on the other hand it blocks the T cell-mediated immune response,  the latter being important for immune surveillance of tumors. Thus, SFN could also interfere with the successful application of immunotherapy by immune checkpoint inhibitors (e.g. CTLA-4 antibodies and PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies) or CAR T cells. Therefore, a combination of SFN with T cell-mediated cancer immunotherapies does not seem advisable."

"41. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Jan;25(1):26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.09.024. Epub 2018 Sep 26.","American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Pharmacy Special Interest Group Survey on Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy Administrative, Logistic, and Toxicity Management Practices in the United States.","Administration of immune effector cell (IEC) therapy is a complex endeavor requiring extensive coordination and communication of various healthcare and administrative teams. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are the most established IEC therapy available. As of July 2018 two commercial gene therapy products, tisagenlecleucel and axicabtagene ciloleucel, have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. To gain insight into the infrastructure and practices across the country, the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Pharmacy Special Interest Group conducted an electronic survey on the current administrative, logistic, and toxicity management practices of CAR T  cell therapy across the United States. This survey consists of 52 responses from  institutions of varying sizes, most of which (∼80%) had previous investigational  experience with CAR T cell therapy. Absorbing the energy of this exciting new treatment has challenged hematopoietic cell transplant programs across the country to strengthen department infrastructure, develop new committees and policies, and implement significant education to ensure safe administration. With the variety of experience with CAR T cell therapy, we hope this survey can contribute to the existing published literature and provide support and consensus to established and developing IEC programs and practice guidelines."

"42. Biotechnol Adv. 2019 Jan - Feb;37(1):239-245. doi: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.12.002. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Standardizing CAR-T therapy: Getting it scaled up.","CAR-T therapy, grafting the specificity of a monoclonal antibody onto a T cell to target certain cancer cells, has been recognized as a promising therapeutic approach for cancer control as evidenced by the two CAR-T products proved by FDA  in 2017. However, the unique heterogeneity of CAR-T therapy has restricted its production in a limited number of institutions and made it a boutique oncotherapy. By reviewing outstanding issues surrounding the commercial scale production of CAR-T therapy, we conclude that achieving mass production of CAR-T  therapy without sacrificing its personalized nature is a worldwild challenge for  making CAR-T a key element in the next generation of precision medicine, which can be achieved by standardizing 7 prominent factors that collectively determine  the scale of CAR-T manufacturing."

"43. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):38-44. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0346-9. Epub 2018 Dec 6.","Cell-based immunotherapy approaches for multiple myeloma.","Despite the arrival of novel therapies, multiple myeloma (MM) remains incurable and new treatment options are needed. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are genetically modified T cells that express a CAR directed against specific tumour  antigens. CAR T cells are able to kill target tumour cells and may result in long-lasting immune responses in vivo. The rapid development of CAR technologies  has led to clinical trials in haematological cancers including MM, and CAR T cells might evolve into a standard treatment in the next few years. Only small patient cohorts with relapsed or refractory disease have so far been investigated, but promising preliminary results with high response rates have been  obtained in phase I clinical trials with B cell maturation antigen (BCMA),  CD19, CD38 and κ-light-chain CAR T cells. Additional preclinical studies on CD38  and SLAMF7-CAR T cells in MM treatment yielded preclinical results that merit further investigation. Beyond the T cell approach, recent studies have focussed on CAR natural killer (NK) cells in order to increase the reactivity of these effector cells. Finally, to investigate the targeting of intracellular antigens,  cellular therapies based on engineered T cell receptors (TCRs) are in development. In this review, we discuss results from preclinical and early-phase  clinical trials testing the feasibility and safety of CAR T cell administration in MM, as well as early studies into approaches that utilise CAR NK cell and genetically modified TCRs."

"44. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):54-56. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0342-0. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of anti-EGFRvIII chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.","EGFRvIII targeted chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has recently been reported for treating glioblastomas (GBMs); however, physiology-based MRI parameters have not been evaluated in this setting. Ten patients underwent multiparametric MRI at baseline, 1, 2 and 3 months after CAR-T therapy. Logistic  regression model derived progression probabilities (PP) using imaging parameters  were used to assess treatment response. Four lesions from early surgery group demonstrated high PP at baseline suggestive of progression, which was confirmed histologically. Out of eight lesions from remaining six patients, three lesions with low PP at baseline remained stable. Two lesions with high PP at baseline were associated with large decreases in PP reflecting treatment response, whereas other two lesions with high PP at baseline continued to demonstrate progression.  One patient didnt have baseline data but demonstrated progression on follow-up.  Our findings indicate that multiparametric MRI may be helpful in monitoring CAR-T related early therapeutic changes in GBM patients."

"45. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):79-87. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0341-1. Epub 2018 Nov 15.","High-affinity CD16-polymorphism and Fc-engineered antibodies enable activity of CD16-chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for cancer therapy.","BACKGROUND: CD16-chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) T cells recognise the Fc-portion of therapeutic antibodies, which can enable the selective targeting of different antigens. Limited evidence exists as to which CD16-CAR design and antibody partner might be most effective. We have hypothesised that the use of high-affinity CD16 variants, with increased Fc-terminus antibody affinity, combined with Fc-engineered antibodies, would provide superior CD16-CAR T cell efficacy. METHODS: CD16-CAR T (wild-type or variants) cells were co-cultured with Panc-1 pancreatic cancer, Raji lymphoma or A375 melanoma cells in the presence or absence of anti-CD20, anti-MCSP, wild-type or the glycoengineered antibody variants. The endpoints were proliferation, activation, and cytotoxicity in vitro. RESULTS: The CD16 158 V variant of CD16-CAR T cells showed increased cytotoxic activity against all the tested cancer cells in the presence of the wild-type antibody directed against MCSP or CD20. Glycoengineered antibodies enhanced CD16-CAR T cell activity irrespective of CD16 polymorphisms as compared with the  wild-type antibody. The combination of the glycoengineered antibodies with the CD16-CAR 158 V variant synergised as seen by the increase in all endpoints. CONCLUSION: These results indicate that CD16-CAR with the high-affinity CD16 variant 158 V, combined with Fc-engineered antibodies, have high anti-tumour efficacy."

"46. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):26-37. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0325-1. Epub 2018 Nov 9.","Teaching an old dog new tricks: next-generation CAR T cells.","Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) refers to the therapeutic use of T cells. T cells genetically engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) constitute the most clinically advanced form of ACT approved to date for the treatment of CD19-positive leukaemias and lymphomas. CARs are synthetic receptors that are able to confer antigen-binding and activating functions on T cells with the aim of therapeutically targeting cancer cells. Several factors are essential for CAR  T cell therapy to be effective, such as recruitment, activation, expansion and persistence of bioengineered T cells at the tumour site. Despite the advances made in CAR T cell therapy, however, most tumour entities still escape immune detection and elimination. A number of strategies counteracting these problems will need to be addressed in order to render T cell therapy effective in more situations than currently possible. Non-haematological tumours are also the subject of active investigation, but ACT has so far shown only marginal success rates in these cases. New approaches are needed to enhance the ability of ACT to  target solid tumours without increasing toxicity, by improving recognition, infiltration, and persistence within tumours, as well as an enhanced resistance to the suppressive tumour microenvironment."

"47. Cancer Immunol Res. 2019 Jan;7(1):100-112. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0307. Epub 2018 Nov 5.","Phase I Trial of Autologous CAR T Cells Targeting NKG2D Ligands in Patients with  AML/MDS and Multiple Myeloma.","NKG2D ligands are widely expressed in solid and hematologic malignancies but absent or poorly expressed on healthy tissues. We conducted a phase I dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a single infusion of NKG2D-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, without lymphodepleting conditioning in subjects with acute myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome or  relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Autologous T cells were transfected with a  γ-retroviral vector encoding a CAR fusing human NKG2D with the CD3ζ signaling domain. Four dose levels (1 × 106-3 × 107 total viable T cells) were evaluated. Twelve subjects were infused [7 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 5 multiple myeloma]. NKG2D-CAR products demonstrated a median 75% vector-driven NKG2D expression on CD3+ T cells. No dose-limiting toxicities, cytokine release syndrome, or CAR T cell-related neurotoxicity was observed. No significant autoimmune reactions were noted, and none of the ≥ grade 3 adverse events were attributable to NKG2D-CAR T cells. At the single injection of low cell doses used in this trial, no objective tumor responses were observed. However, hematologic parameters transiently improved in one subject with AML at the highest dose, and  cases of disease stability without further therapy or on subsequent treatments were noted. At 24 hours, the cytokine RANTES increased a median of 1.9-fold among all subjects and 5.8-fold among six AML patients. Consistent with preclinical studies, NKG2D-CAR T cell-expansion and persistence were limited. Manufactured NKG2D-CAR T cells exhibited functional activity against autologous tumor cells in vitro, but modifications to enhance CAR T-cell expansion and target density may be needed to boost clinical activity."

"48. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 1;25(1):358-368. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1211. Epub 2018 Nov 13.","Preventing Lck Activation in CAR T Cells Confers Treg Resistance but Requires 4-1BB Signaling for Them to Persist and Treat Solid Tumors in Nonlymphodepleted Hosts.","PURPOSE: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown promise against solid tumors, but their efficacy has been limited, due in part, to immunosuppression by CD4+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs). Although lymphodepletion is commonly used  to deplete Tregs, these regimens are nonspecific, toxic, and provide only a narrow window before Tregs repopulate hosts. Importantly, CARs have also been shown to inadvertently potentiate Tregs by providing a source of IL2 for Treg consumption. We explored whether disruption of the IL2 axis would confer efficacy against solid tumors without the need for lymphodepletion. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We developed second- (CD28z) and third- (CD28-4-1BBz) generation CARs targeting EGFRvIII. To eliminate secretion of IL2, 2 amino acid substitutions were introduced in the PYAP Lck-binding motif of the CD28 domain (ΔCD28). We evaluated CARs against B16 melanomas expressing EGFRvIII. RESULTS: CD28z CARs failed to engraft in vivo. Although 4-1BB addition improved expansion, CD28-4-1BBz CARs required lymphodepletion to treat solid tumors. CARs  deficient in Lck signaling, however, significantly retarded tumor growth without  a need for lymphodepletion and this was dependent on inclusion of 4-1BB. To evaluate CAR vulnerability to Tregs, we lymphodepleted mice and transferred CARs  alone or with purified Tregs. Cotransfer with Tregs abrogated the efficacy of CD28-4-1BBz CARs, whereas the efficacy of ΔCD28-4-1BBz CARs remained unperturbed. CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of lymphodepletion, CARs targeting solid tumors are hindered by Treg immunosuppression and poor persistence. Here, CARs were modified to circumvent Treg suppression and to simultaneously improve in vivo engraftment. Modified CARs treated solid tumors without a need for lymphodepletion."

"49. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 1;25(1):29-34. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1379. Epub 2018 Oct 15.","Plasma Exchange Can Be an Alternative Therapeutic Modality for Severe Cytokine Release Syndrome after Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cell Infusion: A Case Report.","BACKGROUND: Tumor immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor-T cells (CAR-T) is a promising new treatment for B-cell malignancies and has produced exciting results. However, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is the most significant toxicity associated with this treatment and can be life-threatening. CASE PRESENTATION: A 23-year-old male patient had been diagnosed with relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia. The patient was recruited into  our CAR-T clinical trial, and 1 × 106/kg of engineered anti-CD19 CAR-T cells was  administered. After infusion of CAR-T cells (day 0), the patient underwent a typical CRS reaction, with increases in fever, muscle soreness, and inflammatory  cytokines. He was treated with antiallergic and antipyretic drugs, glucocorticoids, and tocilizumab (4 mg/kg, days 3 and 5). However, CRS was not under control, and his condition rapidly deteriorated. He was transferred to the  intensive care unit, where dexamethasone 10 mg q6h was administered, and plasma exchange was performed, with 3,000 mL of plasma replaced by fresh frozen plasma per day for 3 consecutive days. His symptoms gradually improved, and the CRS-related symptoms were relieved. Additionally, a bone marrow smear showed no lymphoblast cells, and minimal residual disease was negative on day 28. The patient was eventually discharged in a normal condition. CONCLUSIONS: CRS is caused by an exaggerated systemic immune response, potentially resulting in organ damage that can be fatal. Although therapeutic plasma exchange is not included in CRS management guidelines, this case shows that plasma exchange is feasible in at least some patients with severe CRS."

"50. EBioMedicine. 2019 Jan;39:173-181. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.12.013. Epub 2018 Dec 20.","Modeling anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy in humanized mice with human immunity and autologous leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Adoptive immunotherapy using T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 has produced remarkable clinical outcomes. However, much of the mechanisms of action, such as the development of memory responses and sources of immune cytokines, remain elusive largely due to the challenge of characterizing human CAR T cell function in vivo. The lack of a suitable in vivo model also hinders the development of new CAR T cell therapies. METHODS: We established a humanized mouse (hu-mouse) model with a functional human immune system and genetically-matched (autologous) primary acute B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) that permits modeling of CD19-targeted CAR T cell therapy in immunocompetent hosts without allogeneic or xenogeneic immune responses. FINDINGS: Anti-CD19 CAR T cells were detected in blood of leukemic hu-mice with kinetics and levels similar to those seen in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy. The levels of CAR T cells were correlated inversely with the burden of leukemia cells and positively with the survival times in anti-CD19 CAR T cell-treated leukemic hu-mice. Infusion of anti-CD19 CAR T cells also resulted in rapid production of T cell- and monocyte/macrophage-derived cytokines and an increase in frequency of regulatory T cells as reported in clinical studies. INTERPRETATION: These results provide a proof-of-principle that this novel preclinical model has the potential to be used to model human CAR T cell therapy  and facilitate the design of new CARs with improved antitumor activity."

"51. EBioMedicine. 2019 Jan;39:612-620. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.12.004. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Contemporary patient-tailored treatment strategies against high risk and relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.","Recurrence of disease due to chemotherapy drug resistance remains a major obstacle to a more successful survival outcome of multiple myeloma (MM). Overcoming drug resistance and salvaging patients with relapsed and/or refractory (R/R) MM is an urgent and unmet medical need. Several new personalized treatment  strategies have been developed against molecular targets to overcome this drug resistance. There are several targeted therapeutics with anti-MM activity in clinical pipeline, including inhibitors of anti-apoptotic proteins, monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, bispecific antibodies, fusion proteins, and various cell therapy platforms. For example, B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-specific CAR-T cell platforms showed promising activity in heavily pretreated R/R MM patients. Therefore, there is renewed hope for high-risk as well as R/R MM patients in the era of personalized medicine."

"52. Exp Ther Med. 2019 Jan;17(1):739-747. doi: 10.3892/etm.2018.7015. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Mesothelin-targeted second generation CAR-T cells inhibit growth of mesothelin-expressing tumors in vivo.","Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and mesothelioma are renowned for being diagnosed at a late stage and poor prognosis. Although surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy have yielded successful outcomes, the improvement on the survival rate of NSCLC and mesothelioma have been less marked. Recently, adoptive immunotherapy, particularly chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy demonstrated promise for improving the survival of acute lymphoblastic leukemia with minimum toxicity. However, its application in solid tumors still warrants in-depth investigations and multiple consistent trial results, particularly in eliminating off-tumor toxicity. To explore CAR-T therapy in NSCLC and mesothelioma, second-generation CAR-T cells were constructed targeting mesothelin (MSLN), which is abundant in NSCLC and mesothelioma but is under expressed in normal tissues. The second-generation design incorporated co-stimulatory CD28 and 4-1BB signaling domains to enhance the proliferation. Following the successful analysis of CAR-T cells by flow cytometry, cytotoxicity experiments were performed using the LDH kit to verify the killing effect of CAR-T cells on target cells. Otherwise, the in vivo killing tumor activity of MSLN CAR-T cells was verified by constructing a mouse model using tumor-derived cells from patients to inoculate the mice. When the effector-to-target ratio is >0.5:1, CAR-T MSLN cells exhibited significantly higher ability to kill tumor cells than T cells. In in vivo experiments, mice whose tail vein was injected with CAR-T MSLN cells demonstrated significantly slower tumor growth. Without continuous administration, both groups became gradually synchronized in growth of tumor size, which suggests that the persistence of CAR-T cells is an important issue in preclinical studies."

"53. Future Oncol. 2019 Jan;15(3):305-317. doi: 10.2217/fon-2018-0388. Epub 2018 Oct 3.","The rationale for combination therapy in patients with aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma: ten questions.","Rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone immunochemotherapy remains standard of care for first-line treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). High-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation is offered to most relapsing/refractory patients who respond to salvage therapy. This Q&A review evaluates recommended management strategies for  second and subsequent lines of therapy in patients with DLBCL, outlining the relative efficacies of currently available options including novel agents such as ibrutinib and CAR-T cells. The combination of pixantrone and rituximab is currently under investigation as a second-line treatment for patients ineligible  for stem cell transplantation, while pixantrone monotherapy is the only therapeutic option approved for multiply relapsed and refractory DLBCL beyond the second line at this time."

"55. J Med Genet. 2019 Jan;56(1):10-17. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2018-105405. Epub 2018  Jul 20.","Bacteria-free minicircle DNA system to generate integration-free CAR-T cells.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells engineered with lentiviral  and retroviral vectors have been successfully applied to treat patients with B cell malignancy. However, viral integration in T cells has the potential risk of  mutagenesis, and viral vector production demands effort and is costly. Using non-integrative episomal vector such as minicircle vector to generate integration-free CAR-T cells is an attractive option. METHODS AND RESULTS: We established a novel method to generate minicircle vector  within a few hours using simple molecular biology techniques. Since no bacteria is involved, we named these vectors bacteria-free (BF) minicircle. In comparison  with plasmids, BF minicircle vector enabled higher transgene expression and improved cell viability in human cell line, stem cells and primary T cells. Using BF minicircle vector, we generated integration-free CAR-T cells, which eliminated cancer cells efficiently both in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSION: BF minicircle vector will be useful in basic research as well as in clinical applications such as CAR-T and gene therapy. Although the transgene expression of minicircle vector lasts apparently shorter than that of insertional lentivirus, multiple rounds of BF minicircle CAR-T cell infusion could eliminate  cancer cells efficiently. On the other hand, a relatively shorter CAR-T cell persistence provides an opportunity to avoid serious side effects such as cytokine storm or on-target off-tumour toxicity."

"56. J Med Genet. 2019 Jan;56(1):4-9. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2018-105422. Epub 2018 Jul 3.","Applications and advances of CRISPR-Cas9 in cancer immunotherapy.","Immunotherapy has emerged as one of the most promising therapeutic strategies in  cancer. The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-associated protein 9 (CRISPR-Cas9) system, as an RNA-guided genome editing technology, is triggering a revolutionary change in cancer immunotherapy. With its versatility and ease of use, CRISPR-Cas9 can be implemented to fuel the  production of therapeutic immune cells, such as construction of chimeric antigen  receptor T (CAR-T) cells and programmed cell death protein 1 knockout. Therefore, CRISPR-Cas9 technology holds great promise in cancer immunotherapy. In this review, we will introduce the origin, development and mechanism of CRISPR-Cas9. Also, we will focus on its various applications in cancer immunotherapy, especially CAR-T cell-based immunotherapy, and discuss the potential challenges it faces."

"58. Lancet Oncol. 2019 Jan;20(1):31-42. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(18)30864-7. Epub 2018 Dec 2.","Long-term safety and activity of axicabtagene ciloleucel in refractory large B-cell lymphoma (ZUMA-1): a single-arm, multicentre, phase 1-2 trial.","BACKGROUND: Axicabtagene ciloleucel is an autologous anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. In the previous analysis of the ZUMA-1 registrational study, with a median follow-up of 15·4 months (IQR 13·7-17·3), 89  (82%) of 108 assessable patients with refractory large B-cell lymphoma treated with axicabtagene ciloleucel achieved an objective response, and complete responses were noted in 63 (58%) patients. Here we report long-term activity and  safety outcomes of the ZUMA-1 study. METHODS: ZUMA-1 is a single-arm, multicentre, registrational trial at 22 sites in the USA and Israel. Eligible patients were aged 18 years or older, and had histologically confirmed large B-cell lymphoma-including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma, and transformed follicular lymphoma-according to the 2008 WHO Classification of Tumors of Hematopoietic and  Lymphoid Tissue; refractory disease or relapsed after autologous stem-cell transplantation; an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1; and had previously received an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody containing-regimen and an anthracycline-containing chemotherapy. Participants received one dose of axicabtagene ciloleucel on day 0 at a target dose of 2 × 106 CAR T cells per kg of bodyweight after conditioning chemotherapy with intravenous fludarabine (30 mg/m2 body-surface area) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 body-surface area) on days -5, -4, and -3. The primary endpoints were safety for  phase 1 and the proportion of patients achieving an objective response for phase  2, and key secondary endpoints were overall survival, progression-free survival,  and duration of response. Pre-planned activity and safety analyses were done per  protocol. ZUMA-1 is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02348216. Although the registrational cohorts are closed, the trial remains open, and recruitment to extension cohorts with alternative endpoints is underway. FINDINGS: Between May 19, 2015, and Sept 15, 2016, 119 patients were enrolled and 108 received axicabtagene ciloleucel across phases 1 and 2. As of the cutoff date of Aug 11, 2018, 101 patients assessable for activity in phase 2 were followed up for a median of 27·1 months (IQR 25·7-28·8), 84 (83%) had an objective response,  and 59 (58%) had a complete response. The median duration of response was 11·1 months (4·2-not estimable). The median overall survival was not reached (12·8-not estimable), and the median progression-free survival was 5·9 months (95% CI 3·3-15·0). 52 (48%) of 108 patients assessable for safety in phases 1 and 2 had grade 3 or worse serious adverse events. Grade 3 or worse cytokine release syndrome occurred in 12 (11%) patients, and grade 3 or worse neurological events  in 35 (32%). Since the previous analysis at 1 year, additional serious adverse events were reported in four patients (grade 3 mental status changes, grade 4 myelodysplastic syndrome, grade 3 lung infection, and two episodes of grade 3 bacteraemia), none of which were judged to be treatment related. Two treatment-related deaths (due to haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis and cardiac  arrest) were previously reported, but no new treatment-related deaths occurred during the additional follow-up. INTERPRETATION: These 2-year follow-up data from ZUMA-1 suggest that axicabtagene ciloleucel can induce durable responses and a median overall survival of greater  than 2 years, and has a manageable long-term safety profile in patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma. FUNDING: Kite and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Therapy Acceleration Program."

"59. Oncogene. 2019 Jan;38(4):533-548. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0449-z. Epub 2018 Aug 29.","STAT3 inhibition induces Bax-dependent apoptosis in liver tumor myeloid-derived suppressor cells.","Immunosuppressive myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) subvert antitumor immunity and limit the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T). Previously, we reported that the GM-CSF/JAK2/STAT3 axis drives liver-associated MDSC (L-MDSC) proliferation and blockade of this axis rescued antitumor immunity. We extended these findings in our murine liver metastasis (LM) model, by treating tumor-bearing mice with STAT3 inhibitors (STATTIC or BBI608) to further our understanding of how STAT3 drives L-MDSC suppressive function. STAT3 inhibition caused significant reduction of tumor burden as well as L-MDSC frequencies due to decrease in pSTAT3 levels. L-MDSC isolated from STATTIC or BBI608-treated mice had significantly reduced suppressive function. STAT3 inhibition of L-MDSC was associated with enhanced antitumor activity of CAR-T. Further investigation demonstrated activation of apoptotic signaling pathways in L-MDSC following STAT3 inhibition as evidenced by an upregulation of the pro-apoptotic proteins Bax, cleaved caspase-3, and downregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Accordingly, there was also a decrease of pro-survival markers, pErk and pAkt, and an increase in pro-death marker, Fas, with activation of downstream JNK and p38 MAPK. These findings represent a previously unrecognized link between STAT3 inhibition and Fas-induced apoptosis of MDSCs. Our findings suggest that inhibiting STAT3 has potential clinical application for enhancing the efficacy of CAR-T cells in LM through modulation of L-MDSC."

"60. Semin Immunopathol. 2019 Jan;41(1):59-68. doi: 10.1007/s00281-018-0721-x. Epub 2018 Oct 25.","Off-the-shelf cell therapy with induced pluripotent stem cell-derived natural killer cells.","Cell therapy is emerging as a very promising therapeutic modality against cancer, spearheaded by the clinical success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells for B cell malignancies. Currently, FDA-approved CAR-T cell products are based on engineering of autologous T cells harvested from the patient, typically  using a central manufacturing facility for gene editing before the product can be delivered to the clinic and infused to the patients. For a broader implementation of advanced cell therapy and to reduce costs, it would be advantageous to use allogeneic universal cell therapy products that can be stored in cell banks and provided upon request, in a manner analogous to biopharmaceutical drug products.  In this review, we outline a roadmap for development of off-the-shelf cell therapy based on natural killer (NK) cells derived from induced pluripotent stem  cells (iPSCs). We discuss strategies to engineer iPSC-derived NK (iPSC-NK) cells  for enhanced functional potential, persistence, and homing."

"61. Semin Immunopathol. 2019 Jan;41(1):111-124. doi: 10.1007/s00281-018-0696-7. Epub  2018 Jul 13.","Cancer immune therapy for lymphoid malignancies: recent advances.","Immunotherapy has played an important part in improving the life of patients with lymphoproliferative diseases especially since the addition of rituximab to chemotherapy in the CD20-positive neoplasms in the 1990s. While this field of passive immunotherapy is continuously evolving, several breakthroughs will expand the treatment modalities to include more active immunotherapy. With the approval  of immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies for Hodgkin lymphoma and bispecific antibodies for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), activation of endogenous T cells already plays a role in several lymphoid malignancies. With the approval of cellular therapies with CAR-T cells for ALL and diffuse large B cell lymphoma, the impact of the manipulation of immune responses is taken even further. Vaccines are cellular therapies in the opposite end of the spectrum in terms of side effects, and while the big breakthrough is still to come, the prospect of a  very low-toxic immunotherapy which could be applicable also in premalignant states or in frail patients drives a considerable research activity in the area.  In this review, we summarize the mechanisms of action and clinical data on trials in the lymphoid neoplasms with chimeric antigen receptor T cells, bispecific antibodies, immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies, and antineoplastic vaccination therapy."

"62. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Dec 31;12:145-156. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.12.009. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Engineering and Design of Chimeric Antigen Receptors.","T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have emerged as a potent new class of therapeutics for cancer, based on their remarkable potency in blood cancers. Since the first clinical reports of their efficacy emerged 7 years ago, investigators have focused on the mechanisms and properties that make CARs effective or toxic, and their effects on T cell biology. Novel CAR designs coupled with improvements in gene transfer technology, incorporating advances in  gene editing, have the potential to increase access to engineered cell therapies, as well as improve their potency in solid tumors."

"63. Onco Targets Ther. 2018 Dec 24;12:193-204. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S190336. eCollection  2019.","Critical factors in chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T) therapy for solid tumors.","The success of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T) therapy for B-cell lymphocyte malignancies targeting CD19 places it in a rapidly growing field in cancer immunotherapy for both hematological and solid tumors. However, the two types of tumor are quite different in the following respects. Solid tumors are characterized by complex vasculatures and matrix barriers that significantly affect T-cell functions and migration. Moreover, various immunosuppressive molecules expressed in the tumor microenvironment can impede T-cell activation, and the high metabolic rate of tumors competitively suppresses the metabolism of immune cells. All these factors will exert their influences on  the development of a cancer, which is a dynamic balance between the hosts immune system and the tumor. At present, solid tumors are treated primarily by surgical  resection combined with radiotherapy and chemotherapy, a treatment process that is painful and not always effective. With advantages over traditional treatments, the recently developed CAR-T immunotherapy has been applied and has shown highly  promising results. Nevertheless, the complexity of solid tumors presents a great  challenge to this technique. This review focuses on elucidating the factors influencing the anti-tumor effects of CAR-T in the specific tumor environment, and hence exploring feasible approaches to overcome them."

"64. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Dec 21;11(1):142. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0684-3.","Recent updates in cancer immunotherapy: a comprehensive review and perspective of the 2018 China Cancer Immunotherapy Workshop in Beijing.","The immune system is the hard-wired host defense mechanism against pathogens as well as cancer. Five years ago, we pondered the question if the era of cancer immunotherapy was upon us (Li et al., Exp Hem Oncol 2013). Exciting progresses have been made at all fronts since then, including (1) sweeping approval of six agents by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to block the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway for treatment of 13 cancer types; (2) a paradigm shifting indication of PD-1 and CTLA4 blockers for the management of a broad class of cancers with DNA mismatch repair defect, the first-ever tissue agnostic approval of cancer drugs;  (3) real world practice of adoptive T cell therapy with two CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor T cell products (CAR-T) for relapsed and/or refractory  B cell malignancies including acute lymphoid leukemia and diffuse large B cell lymphoma, signaling the birth of a field now known as synthetic immunology; (4) the award of 2018 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine from the Nobel Committee to Tasuku Honjo and James Allison for their discovery of cancer medicine by inhibition of negative immune regulation ( www.nobelprize.org/prizes/medicine/2018 ); and (5) the emerging new concept of normalizing rather than amplifying anti-tumor immunity for guiding the next wave  of revolution in the field of immuno-oncology (IO) (Sanmamed and Chen, Cell 2018).This article will highlight the significant developments of immune-oncology as of October 2018. The US FDA approved indications of all seven immune checkpoint blockers, and two CD19-directed CAR-T products are tabulated for easy  references. We organized our discussion into the following sections: introduction, cell therapy, emerging immunotherapeutic strategies, expediting oncology drug development in an era of breakthrough therapies, new concepts in cancer immunology and immunotherapy, and concluding remarks. Many of these topics were covered by the 2018 China Cancer Immunotherapy Workshop in Beijing, the fourth annual conference co-organized by the Chinese American Hematologist and Oncologist Network (CAHON), China FDA (CFDA; now known as China National Medical  Product Administration (NMPA)), and the Tsinghua University. We significantly expanded our discussion of important IO developments beyond what were covered in  the conference, and proposed a new Three Rs conceptual framework for cancer immunotherapy, which is to reverse tolerance, rejuvenate the immune system, and restore immune homeostasis. We conclude that the future of immuno-oncology as a distinct discipline of cancer medicine has arrived."

"65. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Dec 19;19(12). pii: E4118. doi: 10.3390/ijms19124118.","Oligoclonal T Cells Transiently Expand and Express Tim-3 and PD-1 Following Anti-CD19 CAR T Cell Therapy: A Case Report.","Clinical trials of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells in hematologic malignancy associate remissions with two profiles of CAR T cell proliferation kinetics, which differ based upon costimulatory domain. Additional T cell intrinsic factors that influence or predict clinical response remain unclear. To  address this gap, we report the case of a 68-year-old woman with refractory/relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), treated with tisagenlecleucel (anti-CD19), with a CD137 costimulatory domain (4-1BB) on an investigational new drug application (#16944). For two months post-infusion, the  patient experienced dramatic regression of subcutaneous nodules of DLBCL. Unfortunately, her CAR T exhibited kinetics unassociated with remission, and she  died of DLBCL-related sequelae. Serial phenotypic analysis of peripheral blood alongside sequencing of the β-peptide variable region of the T cell receptor (TCRβ) revealed distinct waves of oligoclonal T cell expansion with dynamic expression of immune checkpoint molecules. One week prior to CAR T cell contraction, T cell immunoglobulin mucin domain 3 (Tim-3) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) exhibited peak expressions on both the CD8 T cell (Tim-3 ≈ 50%; PD-1 ≈ 17%) and CAR T cell subsets (Tim-3 ≈ 78%; PD-1 ≈ 40%). These correlative observations draw attention to Tim-3 and PD-1 signaling pathways in context of CAR T cell exhaustion."

"67. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Dec 15;24(24):6185-6194. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0426. Epub 2018 Aug 10.","A Phase I/IIa Trial Using CD19-Targeted Third-Generation CAR T Cells for Lymphoma and Leukemia.","PURPOSE: The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has been effective for patients with CD19+ B-cell malignancies. Most studies have investigated the second-generation CARs with either CD28 or 4-1BB costimulatory domains in the CAR receptor. Here, we describe the first clinical phase I/IIa trial using third-generation CAR T cells targeting CD19 to evaluate safety and efficacy. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifteen patients with B-cell lymphoma or leukemia were treated with CAR T cells. The patients with lymphoma received chemotherapy during CAR manufacture and 11 of 15 were given low-dose cyclophosphamide and fludarabine conditioning prior to CAR infusion. Peripheral blood was sampled before and at multiple time points after CAR infusion to evaluate the persistence of CAR T cells and for immune profiling, using quantitative PCR, flow cytometry, and a proteomic array. RESULTS: Treatment with third-generation CAR T cells was generally safe with 4 patients requiring hospitalization due to adverse reactions. Six of the 15 patients had initial complete responses [4/11 lymphoma and 2/4 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)], and 3 of the patients with lymphoma were in remission at 3 months. Two patients are still alive. Best predictor of response was a good immune status prior to CAR infusion with high IL12, DC-Lamp, Fas ligand, and TRAIL. Responding patients had low monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs; CD14+CD33+HLA-DR-) and low levels of IL6, IL8, NAP3, sPDL1, and sPDL2. CONCLUSIONS: Third-generation CARs may be efficient in patients with advanced B-cell lymphoproliferative malignancy with only modest toxicity. Immune profiling pre- and posttreatment can be used to find response biomarkers."

"68. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Dec 14. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy193. [Epub ahead of print]","Cost-Effectiveness of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy in Pediatric Relapsed/Refractory B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","Background: Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy is a promising new class of cancer therapy but has a high up-front cost. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of CAR-T therapy among pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Methods: We built a microsimulation model for pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory B-ALL receiving either CAR-T therapy or standard of care. Outcomes included costs, quality of life (health utility), complications, and survival. We measured cost-effectiveness with the incremental cost-effectiveness  ratio (ICER), with ICERs under $100 000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) considered cost effective. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to test model uncertainty. Results: Compared to standard of care, CAR-T therapy increased overall cost by $528 200 and improved effectiveness by 8.18 QALYs, resulting in an ICER of $64 600/QALY. The model was sensitive to assumptions about long-term CAR-T survival, the complete remission rate of CAR-T patients, and the health utility of long-term survivors. The base model assumed a 76.0% one-year survival with CAR-T, although if this decreased to 57.8%, then CAR-T was no longer cost effective. If the complete remission rate of CAR-T recipients decreased from 81%  to 56.2%, or if the health utility of disease-free survivors decreased from 0.94  to 0.66, then CAR-T was no longer cost effective. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis found that CAR-T was cost effective in 94.8% of iterations at a willingness to pay of $100 000/QALY. Conclusion: CAR-T therapy may represent a cost-effective option for pediatric relapsed/refractory B-ALL, although longer follow-up of CAR-T survivors is required to confirm validity of these findings."

"69. S Afr Med J. 2018 Dec 13;109(1):20-22. doi: 10.7196/SAMJ.2018.v109i1.13425.","Cell and gene therapies at the forefront of innovative medical care: Implications for South Africa.","The fields of cell and gene therapy are moving rapidly towards providing innovative cures for incurable diseases. A current and highly topical example is  immunotherapies involving T-cells that express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T-cells), which have shown promise in the treatment of leukaemia and lymphoma. These new medicines are indicative of the changes we can anticipate in the practice of medicine in the near future. Despite their promise, they pose challenges for introduction into the healthcare sector in South Africa (SA), including: (i) that they are technologically demanding and their manufacture is resource intensive; (ii) that the regulatory system is underdeveloped and likely  to be challenged by ethical, legal and social requirements that accompany these new therapies; and (iii) that costs are likely to be prohibitive, at least initially, and before economies of scale take effect. Investment should be made into finding novel and innovative ways to introduce these therapies into SA sooner rather than later to ensure that SA patients are not excluded from these exciting new opportunities."

"70. J Vis Exp. 2018 Dec 12;(142). doi: 10.3791/58785.","A Spheroid Killing Assay by CAR T Cells.","Immunotherapy has become a field of growing interest in the fight against cancer  otherwise untreatable. Among all immunotherapeutic methods, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) redirected T cells obtained the most spectacular results, in particular with pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Classical validation methods of CAR T cells rely on the use of specificity and functionality assays of the CAR T cells against target cells in suspension and in xenograft models. Unfortunately, observations made in vitro are often decoupled from results obtained in vivo and a lot of effort and animals could be spared by  adding another step: the use of 3D culture. The production of spheroids out of potential target cells that mimic the 3D structure of the tumor cells when they are engrafted into the animal model represents an ideal alternative. Here, we report an affordable, reliable and easy method to produce spheroids from a transduced colorectal cell line as a validation tool for adoptive cell therapy (exemplified here by CD19 CAR T cells). This method is coupled with an advanced live imaging system that can follow spheroid growth, effector cells cytotoxicity  and tumor cell apoptosis."

"71. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 Dec 9;507(1-4):59-66. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.10.151. Epub 2018 Nov 6.","Generation of regulable EGFRvIII targeted chimeric antigen receptor T cells for adoptive cell therapy of glioblastoma.","Adoptive immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptors-modified T cells (CAR-T)  is a promising approach for cancer treatment. However, CARs currently applied in  the clinics cannot be effectively regulated and the safety of CAR-T cell therapies remains a major concern. To improve the safety of CAR-T cells, we designed a synthetic splitting CAR (ssCAR) that can regulate T cell functions exogenously. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII) was used as  a molecular target for ssCAR. Our results indicate that both EGFRvIII and small molecule are needed for the activation of the ssCAR-T cells. AP21967 dose-dependently increased the expression of T cell activation, production of cytokines and extent of cell lysis. In conclusion, the gene switch designed in this study allows for temporal and spatial control over engineered T cells in a dose-and time-dependent manner by AP21967. Our work demonstrates the feasibility  and improved safety profile of this novel treatment approach."

"72. Zhonghua Er Bi Yan Hou Tou Jing Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2018 Dec 7;53(12):925-930. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1673-0860.2018.12.010.","[Construction of latent membrane protein 2A chimeric antigen receptor-T cells and their lethal effects on nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells].","Objective: To produce latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells and detect the lethal effect of LMP2A CAR-T cells on nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cells. Methods: The study was conducted from September 2016 to December 2017.Genetic engineering technology was used to construct anti-LMP2A CAR lentiviral expression vector and sequencing was identified. The expression of anti-LMP2A CAR in the 293T cells was confirmed by western blot. CCK8 assay was used to evaluate the cytotoxicity of LMP2A CAR-T cells to NPC cells. ELISA assay was performed to test IL-2 and IFN-γ releasing of activated LMP2A CAR-T cells. The inhibition effect of LMP2A CAR-T cells on NPC xenograft tumor was observed in vivo. Statistical analysis was performed by statistical software SPSS 21.0. Results: The results of PCR and sequencing showed that anti-LMP2A CAR lentiviral expression vector was constructed successfully. The result of western blot indicated the expression of anti-LMP2A CAR in the 293T cells effectively. The results of CCK-8 assay showed that the killing activities  of LMP2A CAR-T cells to LV-LMP2A-CNE1 cells were (72.11±9.75)%, (54.65 ±5.42)% and (36.68±3.80)% at 20∶1, 10∶1 and 5∶1 ratio of effective cells to target cells, and had a statistical difference compared to CD19 CAR-T cells and T cells (P<0.05). There was no significant difference in the killing activities of LMP2A  CAR-T cells to CNE1 cells compared with CD19 CAR-T cells and T cells. The results of ELISA showed that the content of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the co-culture supernatant  of LMP2A CAR-T cells and LV-LMP2A-CNE1 cells was significantly higher than that of LMP2A CAR-T cells and CNE1 cells which had statistical difference (P<0.05); In vivo experiment, the volume of LMP2A CAR-T cell group was (80.3±10.0) mm(3) which was significantly lower than that of the control groups, and the difference was statistically significant (P<0.05). Conclusion: LMP2A CAR-T cells are successfully prepared and have an obvious targeting cytotoxicity on LMP2A-positive NPC cells."

"73. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2018 Dec 6. pii: S0169-409X(18)30304-1. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2018.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]","Engineering lymphocytes with RNAi.","Lymphocytes are the gatekeepers of the bodys immune system and are involved in pathogenesis if their surveillance is stalled by inhibitory molecules or when they act as mediators for viral entry. Engineering lymphocytes in order to restore their functions is an unmet need in immunological disorders, cancer and in lymphotropic viral infections. Recently, the FDA approved several therapeutic  antibodies for blocking inhibitory signals on T cells. This has revolutionized the field of solid tumor care, together with chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy that did the same for hematological malignancies. RNA interference (RNAi) is a promising approach where gene function can be inhibited  in almost all types of cells. However, manipulation of genes in lymphocyte subsets are difficult due to their hard-to-transfect nature and in vivo targeting remains challenging as they are dispersed throughout the body. The ability of RNAi molecules to gain entry into cells is almost impossible without delivery strategy. Nanotechnology approaches are rapidly growing and their impact in the field of drug and gene delivery applications to transport payloads inside cells have been extensively studied. Here we discuss various technologies available for RNAi delivery to lymphocytes. We shed light on the importance of targeting molecules in order to target lymphocytes in vivo. In addition, we discuss recent  developments of RNAi delivery to lymphocyte subsets, and detail the potential implication for the future of molecular medicine in leukocytes implicated diseases."

"74. Clin Infect Dis. 2018 Dec 6. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciy1025. [Epub ahead of print]","Inflammatory and Infectious Syndromes Associated with Cancer Immunotherapies.","Immunotherapy using antibodies to immune checkpoint molecules or targeted chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells represent dramatic advances in cancer treatment. These therapies mediate immune-related adverse events (irAEs) which may mimic or amplify infectious presentations. Checkpoint inhibitor therapy may be associated with diverse irAEs including mild skin, endocrine and autoimmune manifestations or severe inflammatory processes including colitis, pneumonitis, myocarditis, and shock. CAR-T-cell therapies may induce toxicities including Cytokine-Release Syndrome (CRS) with fevers and multiorgan dysfunction, CAR-T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome (CRES) with altered mental status and  neurologic dysfunction, or Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis-Macrophage-Activation Syndrome (HLH/MAS). Infectious risks may relate to prior cancer therapies or to treatments of inflammatory dysregulation including corticosteroids and inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6. Immune activation may unmask subclinical infections. Clinical  approaches must attempt to identify infections in the face of immunotherapy-associated inflammatory processes. Empirical antimicrobial therapies should not be delayed based on the presumption of noninfectious syndromes."

"75. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Dec 6;12:134-144. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.11.010. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Development of a Novel Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor: A Paradigm for an Affordable CAR T Cell Production at Academic Institutions.","Genetically modifying autologous T cells to express an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown impressive response rates for the treatment of CD19+ B cell malignancies in several clinical trials (CTs). Making this treatment available to our patients prompted us to develop a novel CART19 based on our own  anti-CD19 antibody (A3B1), followed by CD8 hinge and transmembrane region, 4-1BB- and CD3z-signaling domains. We show that A3B1 CAR T cells are highly cytotoxic and specific against CD19+ cells in vitro, inducing secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and CAR T cell proliferation. In vivo, A3B1 CAR T cells are able to fully control disease progression in an NOD.Cg-Prkdc scid Il2rd tm1Wjl /SzJ (NSG) xenograph B-ALL mouse model. Based on the pre-clinical data, we conclude that our CART19 is clearly functional against CD19+ cells, to a level similar to other CAR19s currently being used in the clinic. Concurrently, we describe the implementation of our CAR T cell production system, using lentiviral vector and CliniMACS Prodigy, within a medium-sized academic institution. The results of the validation phase show our system is robust and reproducible, while maintaining a  low cost that is affordable for academic institutions. Our model can serve as a paradigm for similar institutions, and it may help to make CAR T cell treatment available to all patients."

"76. Vet Sci. 2018 Dec 6;5(4). pii: E100. doi: 10.3390/vetsci5040100.","Cellular Immunotherapy of Canine Cancer.","Infusions with immune cells, such as lymphocytes or natural killer (NK) cells, represent one of several modalities of immunotherapy. In human patients with advanced B-cell leukemia or lymphoma, infusions with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-lymphocytes have shown promising responses. However, the scientific and clinical development of cell-based therapies for dogs, who get cancer of similar  types as humans, is lagging behind. One reason is that immune cells and their functionality in dogs are less well characterized, largely due a lack of canine-specific reagents to detect surface markers, and specific cytokines to isolate and expand their immune cells. This review summarizes the current status  of canine cancer immunotherapies, with focus on autologous and allogeneic T-lymphocytes, as well as NK cells, and discusses potential initiatives that would allow therapies with canine immune cells to catch up with the advances in humans."

"77. Mol Ther. 2018 Dec 5;26(12):2727-2737. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.09.009. Epub 2018 Sep 13.","In Vivo Fate and Activity of Second- versus Third-Generation CD19-Specific CAR-T  Cells in B Cell Non-Hodgkins Lymphomas.","Second-generation (2G) chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 are highly active against B cell malignancies, but it is unknown whether any of the costimulatory domains incorporated in the CAR have superior activity to others. Because CD28 and 4-1BB signaling activate different pathways, combining them in a single third-generation (3G) CAR may overcome the limitations of each individual  costimulatory domain. We designed a clinical trial in which two autologous CD19-specific CAR-transduced T cell products (CD19.CARTs), 2G (with CD28 only) and 3G (CD28 and 4-1BB), were infused simultaneously in 16 patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkins lymphoma. 3G CD19.CARTs had superior expansion and longer persistence than 2G CD19.CARTs. This difference was most striking in the five patients with low disease burden and few circulating normal B cells, in whom 2G CD19.CARTs had limited expansion and persistence and correspondingly reduced area under the curve. Of the 11 patients with measurable disease, three achieved  complete responses and three had partial responses. Cytokine release syndrome occurred in six patients but was mild, and no patient required anti-IL-6 therapy. Hence, 3G CD19.CARTs combining 4-1BB with CD28 produce superior CART expansion and may be of particular value when treating low disease burden in patients whose normal B cells are depleted by prior therapy."

"78. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Dec 4;6(1):137. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0460-5.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T therapies for the treatment of hematologic malignancies: clinical perspective and significance.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapies - adoptive T cell therapies that have been genetically engineered for a new antigen-specificity - have displayed significant success in treating patients with hematologic malignancies, leading to three recent US Food and Drug Administration approvals. Based on the promise generated from these successes, the field is rapidly evolving to include new disease indications and CAR designs, while simultaneously reviewing and optimizing toxicity and management protocols. As such, this review provides expert perspective on the significance and clinical considerations of CAR T cell  therapies in order to provide timely information to clinicians about this revolutionary new therapeutic class."

"79. Front Immunol. 2018 Dec 3;9:2740. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02740. eCollection 2018.","CAR T Cell Therapy of Non-hematopoietic Malignancies: Detours on the Road to Clinical Success.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells represent a breakthrough in personalized medicine. In this strategy, a patients own T lymphocytes are genetically reprogrammed to encode a synthetic receptor that binds a tumor antigen, allowing T cells to recognize and kill antigen-expressing cancer cells.  As a result of complete and durable responses in individuals who are refractory to standard of care therapy, CAR T cells directed against the CD19 protein have been granted United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval as a therapy for treatment of pediatric and young adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia and diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Human trials of CAR T cells targeting CD19 or  B cell maturation antigen in multiple myeloma have also reported early successes. However, a clear and consistently reproducible demonstration of the clinical efficacy of CAR T cells in the setting of solid tumors has not been reported to date. Here, we review the history and status of CAR T cell therapy for solid tumors, potential T cell-intrinsic determinants of response and resistance as well as extrinsic obstacles to the success of this approach for much more prevalent non-hematopoietic malignancies. In addition, we summarize recent strategies and innovations that aim to augment the potency of CAR T cells in the  face of multiple immunosuppressive barriers operative within the solid tumor microenvironment. Advances in the field of CAR T cell biology over the coming years in the areas of safety, reliability and efficacy against non-hematopoietic  cancers will ultimately determine how transformative adoptive T cell therapy will be in the broader battle against cancer."

"80. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2018 Dec;145 Suppl 7:VIIS17-VIIS23. doi: 10.1016/S0151-9638(18)31285-7.","[Whats new in research?]","A traditional lecture given during the annual meeting of the French Society of Dermatology in Paris summarizes the highlights of the scientific literature over  the past year. In the current article the selection of the 2017-2018 period retains the following areas of interest: role of microbiome in the response to anti-PD-1 and in autoimmunity, PI3Kδ inhibitors in autoimmune bullous diseases, diagnostic and therapeutic applications of CRISPR/Cas, arrival of CAR-T cells therapy into clinical practice, gene therapy successes, use of targeted therapies in genodermatoses and integration of genetics in primary care. © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved."

"82. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Dec;31(4):367-372. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.09.015. Epub 2018 Sep 25.","Should immunologic strategies be incorporated into frontline ALL therapy?","Survival rates in adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have markedly improved during the past decade. The one-size-fits-all-ages approach has been replaced with adaptation of pediatric-inspired treatment protocols for younger adults. Yet different treatment strategies for older patients are needed  due to chemotherapy-related toxicities. A new era of immunotherapy has arrived, offering opportunities for targeted treatments for ALL subtypes. While CD20 targeting with rituximab has been demonstrated to improve survival when combined  with chemotherapy, it has little activity as a single agent in ALL. In contrast,  antibody targeting of CD19 and CD22 with blinatumomab and inotuzumab ozogamicin,  respectively, has had remarkable single-agent activity in the relapsed setting. Studies are now underway to test these agents in combination with chemotherapy in the frontline setting. The goal of these studies is to improve event-free survival and overall survival by using these approaches in the frontline to eradicate minimal residual disease and, particularly in older adults with ALL, to reduce treatment-related toxicity by limiting the exposure to traditional multi-agent chemotherapy with its attendant toxicities. This review focuses on new immunotherapeutic treatment options and strategies for frontline treatment, including a brief discussion of the use of true immunotherapy, chimeric antigen receptor T-cells, for relapsed B-cell ALL, the potential for targeting CD38 in T-cell ALL, and how these approaches are facilitating the next steps to improve survival for adult patients with ALL."

"83. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S214-S217. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30052-9.","Traitement par cellules CAR-T : état des lieux de leur utilisation aux États-Unis en 2018.","CAR-T THERAPY: CURRENT USE IN THE UNITED STATES IN 2018: Treatment with T-cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T-cell therapy) has been a field  of intense research in the United States since the 1980s. The recent approval in  August 2017 of Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel) opened the door to broader access to CAR T-cell therapy outside of clinical trials. Here, we aim to give the reader a  practical summary of the current practices in the US when considering a patient for CAR T-cell therapy. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"84. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S205-S213. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30051-7.","Rôle du pharmacien hospitalier dans le circuit d’une catégorie de Médicament de Thérapie Innovante : les lymphocytes T exprimant un Récepteur Chimérique à l’Antigène.","ROLE OF THE HOSPITAL PHARMACIST IN THE MANAGEMENT OF A CATEGORY OF ADVANCED THERAPY MEDICINAL PRODUCT: CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTOR T-CELLS: Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cells (CART) belongs to a new class of medicine, Advanced Therapy Medicinal Product, such as define by the European Regulation 1394/2007, and more  exactly to the category of gene therapy medicinal product. Their status of medicine, as well as genetically modified organisms, imposes a particular circuit at hospital while maintaining a way over the Hospital Pharmacy. The manipulation  of genetically modified cells is not usual in pharmacy. It requires, besides the  acquisition of new skills, a not insignificant reorganization of the teams and the rooms of the pharmacy as well as an adapted training of the staff. A good communication is essential between the various actors of the circuit. The hospital pharmacist plays a key role in the implementation of a circuit adapted to this new type of medicine. This article aims to identify the roles of the hospital pharmacist and more generally of the pharmacy in the management of CART. We shall detail the specificities of this type of medicine in every stage of the  circuit and the adaptations necessary to realize to guarantee the quality and the safety of the treatment by CART. Beyond the implementation of the circuit in the  hospital, the pharmacist has an important role to be played in the follow-up of the patients after administration in view of the complexity of the side effects and a certain role in the training of the teams to this new medicine. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"85. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S198-S204. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30050-5.","Réglementations applicables aux CAR-T cells : comment les établissements de santé français peuvent-ils s’organiser pour participer à la production et permettre la  délivrance de ces immunothérapies innovantes ?","REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR CAR-T CELLS: HOW CAN FRENCH HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS ADAPT THEIR ORGANIZATION TO REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY OF THESE INNOVATIVE CELL-BASED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS?: More than five years after the first US publications reporting a significant rate of clinical responses in patients with high-risk or advanced CD19+ lymphoid malignancies, access to treatment with  CAR-T Cells at European hospitals in general and at French hospitals in particular remains limited. One - and not the least - hurdle lay in the need to set up a complex and unprecedented organization that complies with European regulations on Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products as well as with national (French) regulations. We here review the organizational framework for two situations: delivery and administration of industry-manufactured CAR-T Cells as well as engineering and distribution of CAR-T Cells produced as investigational drugs to be evaluated in the context of clinical research protocols. Cet article  fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"86. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S188-S197. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30049-9.","Gestion des toxicités des lymphocytes T exprimant un récepteur à l’antigène chimérique (CAR-T cells).","TOXICITY MANAGEMENT OF CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTOR T-CELLS: Chimeric antigen receptor T-cells (CAR T-cells) represent a very promising treatment for both hematological malignancies and solid tumors. Many clinical trials are currently on-going to establish the role of this emerging therapy. The toxicities observed  after CAR T-cells infusion are mostly represented by a cytokine release syndrome  and neurological symptoms. Athough reversible, these adverse events remain associated with morbidity and mortality in patients. The objective of this review is to describe these adverse events, also discussing their physiopathology and management, based on the recent recommendations published by the CARTOX working group (CAR T-cell-therapy-associated TOXicity working group) in the US. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"87. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S178-S187. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30048-7.","Développement des CAR-T dans les tumeurs solides.","DEVELOPMENT OF CAR T-CELLS IN SOLID TUMORS: CHALLENGES AND PERSPECTIVES: While Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cells have shown outstanding results in some hematologic malignancies, studies in solid tumors are less encouraging with poor  response rates. Several factors can account for this lack of efficiency in solid  tumors: heterogeneous expression or absence of specific target antigen (and so higher risk of toxicity), immunosuppressive microenvironment, homing and tumoral  trafficking issues or lack of CAR T-cell persistence. Different approaches can be considered to overcome these resistance mechanisms: bispecific CARs, use of logic gates, combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors, engineered CAR T-cells resistant to immunosuppressive molecules, addition of chemokines or enzymes, combination with oncolytic virus, intra-tumoral administration, selection of memory T cell subpopulations and development of armored CAR T-cells secreting cytokines such as IL-12, -15 or -18. Last generation optimized CAR T-cell design  should thus improve therapeutic efficiency. CAR-T cells may represent in a near future a therapeutic breakthrough also in solid tumors, especially in cold tumors and/or tumors lacking MHC class I expression. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"88. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S168-S177. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30047-5.","L’émergence des traitements par cellules CAR-T dans les lymphomes.","EMERGING THERAPIES USING CAR-T CELLS IN LYMPHOMA: After the promising results obtained in North American academic centers suggesting the curative potential of  these treatments, the development of T cells carrying a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) directed against the CD19 antigen has experienced rapid developments in recent years. Three major trials (each involving about 100 patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell lymphoma) were conducted and evaluated the efficacy of these treatments (Zuma-1, Juliet and Transcend). Tumor responses are  observed in 52% to 82% of patients, with a best complete response (CR) rate of 40% to 58%. Although some patients with early CR may relapse rapidly, the quality of the response appears to improve over time for other patients in partial response, all of which result in a proportion of patients with prolonged CR by approximately 30% to 40% (up to more than one year after treatment). Toxicities (mostly early and reversible) are mainly represented by the cytokine release syndrome (severe in 1% to 22% of patients) and neurological disorders sometimes severe (in 12% to 31% of patients), while other patients develop cytopenias or hypogammaglobulinemia. The updating of these studies over time and the new developments (in the improvement of their conception and in their use) of the CAR-T will allow to better defining the place of these innovative and promising treatments in the therapeutic strategy of patients with lymphoma. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"89. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S158-S167. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30046-3.","Traitement par CAR-T des leucémies aiguës de ladulte.","CAR-T TREATMENT OF ACUTE LEUKEMIA IN ADULTS: The prognosis for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in adults remains poor in refractory or relapsed (R/R) situations. Among the immunotherapy strategies that have recently been developed, CAR-T cells (chimeric antigen receptor modified T-cells) represent a major technological and therapeutic advance in the management of adult and pediatric patients with such resistant diseases. The first CAR-T trials targeting the ubiquitous B-cell antigen CD19 showed very encouraging results with complete  remission rates of approximately 80%. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity are two major and potentially life-threatening adverse events, that require coordinated management with intensive care units and graduated use of IL-6 pathway blocking antibodies and steroids. In addition to immediate toxicity, many clinical issues arise such as ALL treatment from apheresis to CAR-T infusion, the role of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) before or after CAR-T therapy, or the reduction of escape mechanisms mostly driven by the loss of target expression. The development of these strategies in other subtypes of acute leukemias, including myeloid acute leukemia, is confronted with the expression of antigenic targets by healthy tissues and the potential risk of  prolonged cytopenias. This review adopts a clinical perspective to detail the main results of CD19 CAR-T in ALL and the challenges raised by this new therapeutic approach. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"90. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S147-S157. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30045-1.","CAR-T cells : indications actuelles en pédiatrie et perspectives de développement.","CAR T CELLS: CURRENT INDICATIONS IN CHILDREN AND PERSPECTIVES: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the first cause of cancer in children. Five-year  overall survival is greater than 90% but leukemia remains a major cause of death  from cancer in children. A new class of immunotherapy based on a chimeric antigen receptor CAR targeting the CD19 on the B leukemic cells and that is transduced  in an autologous or allogenic T lymphocyte will allow to transform the prognosis  of refractory or relapsed B-ALL. Overall response rates range from 60 to 90% in phase I-II studies in patients with second relapse or more or with refractory disease. Persistent remissions and even cures have been observed. These very good results could lead to use this treatment in first line for patients with very high-risk disease. However, CAR-T cells production, costs and adverse events management represent major issues for the future of this therapeutic. The occurrence of CD19 negative relapses has led to develop bispecific CAR-T cells. Allogeneic CAR would permit to obtain a CAR garage off the shelf available from the diagnosis. Perspectives for CAR-T cells are immense but will involve technological progresses around the CAR conception and production, leading to further improve results in leukemias (ALL but also AML) and lymphomas and hopefully to the emergence of efficacy in childhood solid tumors. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"91. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 2:S135-S146. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(19)30044-X.","Biologie, concepts et principes des CAR-T cells.","CAR-T CELLS: BIOLOGY, CONCEPTS AND PRINCIPLES: The development of new anti-tumor  immunotherapy approaches has recently dramatically increased. Progresses made in  molecular biology and the development of various genetic manipulation tools allow the reprogrammation of T cells in order to make them express a chimeric receptor including the variable part of an immunoglobulin capable of recognizing  a tumor antigen along with the expression of molecules involved in T-lymphocyte activation signaling. Genetically modified T-cells, called CAR (chimeric antigen receptors) -T cells, have yielded impressive clinical results in the treatment of relapsed or refractory lymphoid hematological malignancies after conventional  treatments and are in development in solid tumors. Different generations of CAR-T cells have been developed and technological progress makes it possible to envisage modulations of gene constructs that could further optimize the efficacy  and tolerance of CAR-T cells. The first challenge of these approaches concerns the identification of specific tumor antigen targets in order to limit the on-target/off-tumor effects and the loss of expression of the target. Approaches  i) targeting several antigens or ii) limiting the duration of expression of CAR in lymphocytes or iii) destroying CAR-T cells by a suicide gene. Interesting approaches are the second objective of improvement concerns the accessibility of  CAR-T cells to tumor sites and the control of the immune escape mechanisms of tumor cells to the cytotoxicity of CAR-T cells. This issue is currently under the way of search of innovative strategies that should improve the clinical effectiveness of CAR-T cells, especially in solid tumors. Cet article fait partie du numéro supplément Les cellules CAR-T : une révolution thérapeutique ? réalisé  avec le soutien institutionnel des partenaires Gilead : Kite et Celgene."

"92. Bull Cancer. 2018 Dec;105 Suppl 1:S68-S79. doi: 10.1016/S0007-4551(18)30392-8.","Nouvelles perspectives dans l’immunothérapie des cancers pédiatriques.","NEW PERSPECTIVES IN IMMUNOTHERAPIES FOR PEDIATRIC MALIGNANCIES: New therapeutic paradigms are needed to improve the survival of children and adolescents with high-risk malignancies, and to reduce the sequelae associated with treatment. Immunotherapies, targeting tumor cells and/or the immune system to enhance existing anti-tumor immunity or induce novel anti-tumor immune responses, are becoming increasingly successful in adult oncology. Based on the results obtained with anti-ganglioside2 antibodies in neuroblastoma, rituximab in mature B malignancies, immune checkpoint inhibitors in lymphoma and especially in Hodgkin  lymphoma, blinatumomab and CAR-T CD19 cells for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, immunotherapy has demonstrated irrefutable benefits in pediatric patients. However, these results are currently limited to a minority of patients  and histologies. Current and ongoing trials tend to focus on a single type of immunotherapy, but it is likely that combinations of immunotherapies with different mechanisms of action or combination with other classes of anti-cancer treatments will be additives or even synergistic. The development of this new class of drugs in the treatment of pediatric cancers has multiple challenges: to  better evaluate the response to treatment, to define the optimal doses and schedules, to manage immuno-mediated toxicities, to identify its specific sequelae, and, finally, to better understand the strategies of immune evasion of  pediatric cancers in order to develop efficient immunotherapies."

"95. CNS Drugs. 2018 Dec;32(12):1091-1101. doi: 10.1007/s40263-018-0582-9.","Neurotoxicity Associated with CD19-Targeted CAR-T Cell Therapies.","Neurotoxicity is an important and common complication of chimeric antigen receptor-T cell therapies. Acute neurologic signs and/or symptoms occur in a significant proportion of patients treated with CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor-T cells for B-cell malignancies. Clinical manifestations include headache, confusion, delirium, language disturbance, seizures and rarely, acute cerebral edema. Neurotoxicity is associated with cytokine release syndrome, which occurs in the setting of in-vivo chimeric antigen receptor-T cell activation and  proliferation. The mechanisms that lead to neurotoxicity remain unknown, but data from patients and animal models suggest there is compromise of the blood-brain barrier, associated with high levels of cytokines in the blood and cerebrospinal  fluid, as well as endothelial activation. Corticosteroids, interleukin-6-targeted therapies, and supportive care are frequently used to manage patients with neurotoxicity, but high-quality evidence of their efficacy is lacking."

"96. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Dec;13(6):534-542. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0482-6.","Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapies: Harnessing the Power of the Immune System to Fight Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This article will review the use of anti-CD19 CAR-T therapy used in relapsed/refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma. RECENT FINDINGS: The clinical outcomes, safety analysis, and other relevant considerations will be discussed with an emphasis on the most recently published  data regarding the ZUMA-1, JULIET, and TRANSCEND NHL-001 trials. Anti-CD19 CAR-T  therapy is an exciting new therapy now approved and available to patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Secondary to the increasing success and availability of these products, caregivers should expect to become familiar with the indications, toxicity, and limitations of these treatment options and when patients should be considered for referral."

"97. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Dec;13(6):484-493. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0476-4.","Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation in the Era of Engineered Cell Therapy.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Cellular therapy using T cells modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T cells) has had striking success in patients that have failed previous treatment for CD19+ B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Curative therapy for this group of diseases has previously been limited to allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT (alloHCT). The recent results of CAR-T cell therapy raise the question of how best to integrate CAR-T cell therapy and alloHCT in the care of these patients. RECENT FINDINGS: Within the past 2 years, results from larger trials and increased follow-up of patients treated with CD19 CAR-T cell therapy suggest that some may achieve durable remission without transplant. The balance of efficacy and toxicity for CAR-T cell therapy and alloHCT vary by disease type, disease status at the time of treatment, patient characteristics, and the specific therapy employed. There are early signals that subsequent transplantation of patients who have achieved remission with CAR-T may be a potentially viable (though expensive) strategy."

"98. Cytotherapy. 2018 Dec;20(12):1415-1418. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.10.003. Epub 2018 Oct 29.","Early positron emission tomography/computed tomography as a predictor of response after CTL019 chimeric antigen receptor -T-cell therapy in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas.","Molecular imaging with 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) is an established modality for response assessment in patients with lymphoma undergoing treatment. However, patients treated with novel immunotherapies may have false-positive PET/CT findings due to tumor site and systemic inflammation. In particular, treatment with autologous chimeric antigen receptor modified T-cells redirected at CD19 (CTL019 CAR-T cells) is often complicated by cytokine release syndrome (CRS) due to a severe systemic inflammatory reaction. Infiltration of tumors by activated CTL019 cells may impact radiographic and functional imaging findings. The role of PET/CT in patients treated with CTL019 has not previously been described. We performed a pilot, single-arm, prospective study to explore the utility of early PET/CT in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma (FL) undergoing treatment with CTL019 CAR-T cells. Patients had PET/CT prior to CTL019 infusion and then early PET/CT at 1 month after treatment. The primary outcome was the amount/change in metabolically active tumor volume (MTV) and FDG uptake. We enrolled seven patients (DLBCL, three; FL, four). Six of 7 had baseline PET/CT with active disease. On post-treatment PET/CT, three patients had no residual MTV, two patients had a decrease in MTV and two patients had an increase in MTV. The three patients with  no residual MTV all remain in remission >2 years post-treatment. The patients with less than complete response all subsequently relapsed. Development of CRS did not confound PET/CT findings. In patients with DLBCL and FL receiving CTL019  CAR-T cells, early PET/CT may predict response to this novel immunotherapy."

"99. Exp Dermatol. 2018 Dec;27(12):1315-1321. doi: 10.1111/exd.13792.","CAR-T cell therapy in melanoma: A future success story?","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells are one of the impressive recent success  stories of anti-cancer immunotherapy. Especially in haematological malignancies,  this treatment strategy has shown promising results leading to the recent approval of two CAR-T cell constructs targeting CD19 in the United States and the European Union. After the huge success in haematological cancers, the next step will be the evaluation of its efficacy in different solid tumors, which is currently investigated in preclinical as well as clinical settings. A commonly examined tumor model in the context of immunotherapy is melanoma, since it is known for its immunogenic features. However, the first results of CAR-T cell therapy in solid tumors did not reveal the same impressive outcomes that were observed in haematological malignancies, as engineered cells need to cope with several challenges. Obstacles include the lack of migration of CAR-T cells from blood vessels to the tumor site as well as the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment within solid tumors. Another hurdle is posed by the identification of an ideal target antigen to avoid on-target/off-tumor toxicities. Regarding immune escape mechanisms, which can be developed by tumor cells to bypass immune recognition, the observation of antigen loss should also be considered. This article gives an overview of the challenges displayed in CAR-T cell therapy for the use in solid tumors and discusses different new strategies and approaches that deal with these problems in order to improve CAR-T cell therapy, particularly for its use in melanoma."

"100. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Dec;18(12):1209-1221. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1544240. Epub 2018 Nov 13.","CD38 as an immunotherapeutic target in multiple myeloma.","INTRODUCTION: Multiple myeloma (MM) is a currently incurable hematologic tumor with heterogeneous clinical behavior and prognosis. During the last years, survival improved due to a better understanding of MM biology and the development of novel drugs, although it still remains unsatisfactory in many cases: new drugs and treatment strategies are needed. CD38 is uniformly expressed at high levels on MM cells and, to a lesser extent, on the surface of normal hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells, making this molecule an interesting target for immunotherapeutic approaches. AREAS COVERED: This review discusses the preclinical and clinical experience on different immunotherapeutic agents targeting CD38 in MM. EXPERT OPINION: Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) targeting CD38 are currently changing the treatment scenario in MM, allowing physicians to reach unprecedented results, especially when anti-CD38 mAbs are used in combination with consolidated MM treatments. Other immunotherapies targeting CD38 - such as conjugated anti-CD38 mAbs, bispecific antibodies stimulating T cells to eliminate CD38+ MM cells, and CD38-specific chimeric antigen receptor T cells - are interesting strategies, currently at earlier developmental stages."

"101. Hum Immunol. 2018 Dec;79(12):876-882. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2018.09.007. Epub 2018 Sep 24.","CRISPR/Cas9 and CAR-T cell, collaboration of two revolutionary technologies in cancer immunotherapy, an instruction for successful cancer treatment.","Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR associated nuclease9 (CRISPR/Cas9) technology, an acquired immune system in bacteria and archaea, has provided a new tool for accurately genome editing. Using only a single nuclease protein in complex with 2 short RNA as a site-specific endonuclease made it a simple and flexible genome editing tool to target nearly any genomic locus. Due to recent developments in therapeutic engineered T cell and effective responses of CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CART19) in patients with B-cell leukemia and lymphoma, adoptive T cell immunotherapy, particularly CAR-T cell therapy became a rapidly growing field in  cancer therapy and recently Kymriah and Yescarta (CD19-directed CAR-T cells) were approved by FDA. Therefore, the combination of CRISPR/Cas9 technology as a genome engineering tool and CAR-T cell therapy (engineered T cells that express chimeric antigen receptors) may lead to further improvement in efficiency and safety of CAR-T cells. This article reviews mechanism and therapeutic application of CRISPR/Cas9 technology, accuracy of this technology, cancer immunotherapy by CAR  T cells, the application of CRISPR technology for the production of universal CAR T cells, improving their antitumor efficacy, and biotech companies that invested  in CRISPR technology for CAR-T cell therapy."

"102. J Invest Dermatol. 2018 Dec;138(12):2501-2504.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jid.2018.09.002. Epub 2018 Sep 19.","Research Techniques Made Simple: CAR T-Cell Therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and chimeric autoantibody receptor T-cell therapy hold great promise in the treatment of cancer and autoimmune disease, respectively. This powerful technique involves genetically engineering T lymphocytes to enable selective destruction of disease-causing cells. In the current approach, a patients T cells are genetically engineered to express an antigen-specific antibody fragment fused to activating cytoplasmic T-cell signaling domains. After ex vivo activation and genetic modification of a patients own T cells, the individually tailored CAR T cells are then infused into the patient for the selective destruction of cells bearing the targeted antigen. CAR T cells directed against the CD19 antigen expressed on B lymphoma cells have shown remarkable clinical efficacy in the treatment of refractory lymphoma, with two anti-CD19 CAR-T products recently gaining approval from the US Food and Drug Administration. For dermatological disease, preliminary studies have shown efficacy of CAR T cells in targeting melanoma cells and the pathogenic B cells in pemphigus vulgaris. Despite its great promise, current clinical CAR T-cell (or CAR-T) therapy carries a high risk of cytokine release syndrome, a potentially fatal systemic inflammatory response that can be manifest in cutaneous findings. For the dermatologist, the rapid clinical emergence of CAR-T  therapy promises to treat and cure a variety of dermatological conditions, but it also requires an astute awareness of potential cutaneous complications in the increasing number of patients undergoing CAR-T therapy."

"103. J Med Econ. 2018 Dec;21(12):1238-1245. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1529674. Epub 2018 Oct 16.","Cost-effectiveness of axicabtagene ciloleucel for adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma in the United States."," PURPOSE: Axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel) was recently approved for treatment of relapsed or refractory (R/R) large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) following two or more prior therapies. As the first CAR T-cell therapy available for adults in the US,  there are important questions about clinical and economic value. The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of axi-cel compared to salvage chemotherapy using a decision model and a US payer perspective. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision model was developed to estimate life years (LYs), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and lifetime cost for adult patients  with R/R LBCL treated with axi-cel vs salvage chemotherapy (R-DHAP). Patient-level analyses of the ZUMA-1 and SCHOLAR-1 studies were used to inform the model and to estimate the proportion achieving long-term survival. Drug and procedure costs were derived from US average sales prices and Medicare reimbursement schedules. Future healthcare costs in long-term remission was derived from per capita Medicare spending. Utility values were derived from patient-level data from ZUMA-1 and external literature. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses evaluated uncertainty. Outcomes were calculated over a lifetime horizon and were discounted at 3% per year. RESULTS: In the base case, LYs, QALYs, and lifetime costs were 9.5, 7.7, and $552,921 for axi-cel vs 2.6, 1.1, and $172,737 for salvage chemotherapy, respectively. The axi-cel cost per QALY gained was $58,146. Cost-effectiveness was most sensitive to the fraction achieving long-term remission, discount rate,  and axi-cel price. The likelihood that axi-cel is cost-effective was 95% at a willingness to pay of $100,000 per QALY. CONCLUSION: Axi-cel is a potentially cost-effective alternative to salvage chemotherapy for adults with R/R LBCL. Long-term follow-up is necessary to reduce uncertainties about health outcomes."

"104. J Nucl Med. 2018 Dec;59(12):1894-1900. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.118.208041. Epub 2018  Jun 14.","Antibody with Infinite Affinity for In Vivo Tracking of Genetically Engineered Lymphocytes.","There remains an urgent need for the noninvasive tracking of transfused chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to determine their biodistribution, viability, expansion, and antitumor functionality. DOTA antibody reporter 1 (DAbR1) comprises a single-chain fragment of the antilanthanoid-DOTA antibody 2D12.5/G54C fused to the human CD4-transmembrane domain and binds irreversibly to lanthanoid  (S)-2-(4-acrylamidobenzyl)-DOTA (AABD). The aim of this study was to investigate  whether DAbR1 can be expressed on lymphocytes and used as a reporter gene as well as a suicide gene for therapy of immune-related adverse effects. Methods: DAbR1 was subcloned together with green fluorescent protein into an SFG-retroviral vector and used to transduce CD3/CD28-activated primary human T cells and second-generation 1928z (CAR) T cells. Cell surface expression of DAbR1 was confirmed by cell uptake studies with radiolabeled AABD. In addition, the feasibility of imaging of DAbR1-positive T cells in vivo after intravenous injection of 86Y/177Lu-AABD was studied and radiation doses determined. Results:  A panel of DAbR1-expressing T cells and CAR T cells exhibited greater than 8-fold increased uptake of 86Y-AABD in vitro when compared with nontransduced cells. Imaging studies showed 86Y-AABD was retained by DAbR1-positive T cells while it continuously cleared from normal tissues, allowing for in vivo tracking of intravenously administered CAR T cells. Normal-organ dose estimates were favorable for repeated PET/CT studies. Selective T cell ablation in vivo with 177Lu-AABD seems feasible for clustered T-cell populations. Conclusion: We have demonstrated for the first time that T cells can be modified with DAbR1, enabling their in vivo tracking via PET and SPECT. The favorable biodistribution and high  image contrast observed warrant further studies of this new reporter gene."

"105. Mamm Genome. 2018 Dec;29(11-12):739-756. doi: 10.1007/s00335-018-9756-5. Epub 2018 Jul 9.","Manipulating the tumor microenvironment by adoptive cell transfer of CAR T-cells.","T-cells expressing synthetic chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have revolutionized immuno-oncology and highlighted the use of adoptive cell transfer, for the treatment of cancer. The phenomenal clinical success obtained in the treatment of hematological malignancies with CAR T-cells has not been reproduced  in the treatment of solid tumors, mainly due to the suppressive and hostile tumor microenvironment (TME). This review will address the immunosuppressive features of the TME, which include the stroma, cytokine and chemokine milieu, suppressive  regulatory cells and hypoxic conditions, which can all pose formidable barriers for the effective anti-tumor function of CAR T-cells. Some of the novel next generation CARs that have been developed and tested against the TME, will be discussed, to highlight the status of current research in CAR T-cell therapy for  solid tumors."

"106. Nature. 2018 Dec;564(7735):273-277. doi: 10.1038/s41586-018-0774-y. Epub 2018 Dec 12.","Disruption of a self-amplifying catecholamine loop reduces cytokine release syndrome.","Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a life-threatening complication of several new immunotherapies used to treat cancers and autoimmune diseases1-5. Here we report  that atrial natriuretic peptide can protect mice from CRS induced by such agents  by reducing the levels of circulating catecholamines. Catecholamines were found to orchestrate an immunodysregulation resulting from oncolytic bacteria and lipopolysaccharide through a self-amplifying loop in macrophages. Myeloid-specific deletion of tyrosine hydroxylase inhibited this circuit. Cytokine release induced by T-cell-activating therapeutic agents was also accompanied by a catecholamine surge and inhibition of catecholamine synthesis reduced cytokine release in vitro and in mice. Pharmacologic catecholamine blockade with metyrosine protected mice from lethal complications of CRS resulting from infections and various biotherapeutic agents including oncolytic bacteria, T-cell-targeting antibodies and CAR-T cells. Our study identifies catecholamines as an essential component of the cytokine release that can be modulated by specific blockers without impairing the therapeutic response."

"107. Oncol Rep. 2018 Dec;40(6):3714-3724. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6731. Epub 2018 Sep 24.","Bortezomib improves adoptive carbonic anhydrase IX‑specific chimeric antigen receptor‑modified NK92 cell therapy in mouse models of human renal cell carcinoma.","Adoptive chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T or NK cells offer new options for cancer treatment. Clinical results indicate that CAR‑modified T cell (CAR‑T) therapy has curative therapeutic efficacy for hematological malignancies. However, the efficacy of the therapy in most solid tumors, including advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), remains highly limited. New regimens, including combination of CAR‑T cells with chemical drugs, must be studied to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of CAR‑T or NK cells for solid tumors. In the present study, a carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX)‑specific third‑generation CAR was transduced into  NK92 cells by lentiviral vectors. The immune effects, including cytokine release  and cytotoxicity, of the CAR‑NK92 cells against CAIX‑positive RCC cells were evaluated in vitro. Combination therapeutic effects of bortezomib and CAR‑NK92 cells were analyzed in a mouse model with human RCC xenografts. The results revealed that CAIX‑specific CAR‑NK92 cells specifically recognized in vitro cultured CAIX‑positive RCC cells and released cytokines, including IFN‑γ, perforin and granzyme B, and exhibited specific cytotoxicity. The cytotoxicity of the CAR‑NK92 cells was enhanced after treating RCC cells with bortezomib in vitro. The suppressive efficacy of bortezomib combined with CAR‑NK92 cells against established CAIX‑positive tumor xenografts was more significant than that of the monotherapy with either CAR‑NK92 cells or bortezomib. Therefore, bortezomib can enhance the effects of the CAR‑NK92 cells against RCC in vitro and in vivo. This study provided an experimental basis for the novel clinical regimen of CAIX‑specific CAR‑modified NK or T cells for the treatment of RCC."

"109. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Dec;26(6):1604-1609. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2018.06.004.","[Application of CD19-CAR T Cells in Refractory Relapsed Acute B Lymphocyte Leukemia].","OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy of CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CD19-CAR T) in the treatment of patients with refractory relapsed B cell  acute lymphocyte leukemia（B-ALL）. METHODS: The efficacy and safety of CD19-CAR T cells in treatment of patients with refractory relapsed B-ALL from January 2015 to July 2017 in the Department of Hematology of Peking University Third Hospital were analyzed retrospectively. RESULTS: A total of 10 patients were included in this analysis, all of which were consistent with the diagnosis of refractory relapsed B-ALL, and the immunophenotype of leukemia cells was CD19 positive. After treatment with CD19-CAR T cells, the overall response rate（ORR） on day 28 was 70%. Among them, 6 cases reached complete remission（CR）, 1 case reached partial remission（PR）. The rate of CR on day 90 was 30%. CONCLUSION: CD19-CAR T cells are effective in the treatment of refractory relapsed B-ALL, and the adverse reactions are controllable."

"110. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2018 Nov 30;2018(1):25-34. doi: 10.1182/asheducation-2018.1.25.","No free rides: management of toxicities of novel immunotherapies in ALL, including financial.","Therapeutic options for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, especially in the relapsed/refractory setting, have expanded significantly in recent times. However, this comes at the cost of toxicities: medical as well as financial. We highlight some of the unique toxicities associated with the novel agents to apprise our readers about what to expect, how to recognize them, and how to manage these toxicities. One of the toxicities seen with inotuzumab, a CD22 antibody drug conjugate, is sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, which can be fatal in >80% of patients if associated with multiorgan failure. Blinatumomab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD19, is associated with cytokine release syndrome  (CRS) and neurotoxicity, both of which require prompt recognition and management  primarily with corticosteroids. CRS and neurotoxicity are more common and more severe with chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR-T). The fact that CAR-T cannot be discontinued on demand adds a layer of complexity to the management of  related toxicities of this therapy. Tocilizumab, an interleukin-6 receptor blocker, is used to treat severe CRS from CAR-T, whereas corticosteroids remain the mainstay for neurotoxicity management. Although effective, these drugs carry  a high price tag, and we review the available data on cost-effectiveness of these agents, keeping in mind that median follow-up on most of these studies is limited and that long-term data on durability of response remain to be seen."

"111. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2018 Nov 30;2018(1):16-24. doi: 10.1182/asheducation-2018.1.16.","Are CAR T cells better than antibody or HCT therapy in B-ALL?","Multicenter trials in children and young adults using second-generation CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown dramatic levels  of remission in patients with multiply relapsed/refractory disease (80% to ≥90%). Early results in adult trials have also shown significant responses, and strategies aimed at mitigating toxicities associated with the therapy have improved tolerability. Therefore, if available, CAR T-cell therapy deserves consideration for salvage of children and adults with B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) who are multiply relapsed, refractory, or relapsed after a previous allogeneic transplantation. For patients with a first relapse or who have persistent minimal residual disease (MRD) after initial or relapse therapy, treatment with blinatumomab or inotuzumab is reasonable to help patients achieve MRD- remission before definitive therapy with allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). A number of studies in younger patients using 4-1BB-based CAR T-cell constructs lentivirally transduced into patient T cells and then optimally expanded have resulted in long-term persistence without further therapy. In 1 study using CD28-based CARs in adults, the benefit of HCT after CAR T-cell therapy was not clear, because a group of patients experienced long-term remissions without HCT. These data suggest that CAR T-cell therapy may  be able to substitute for transplantation in many patients, avoiding the risks and long-term consequences of HCT. With this is mind, and with emerging data better defining ways of enhancing CAR T-cell persistence and avoiding relapse through antigen escape, CAR T cells will have a growing role in treatment of both pediatric and adult B-ALLs in the coming years."

"112. Blood Adv. 2018 Nov 27;2(22):3393-3403. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2018020198.","No free rides: management of toxicities of novel immunotherapies in ALL, including financial.","Therapeutic options for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, especially in the relapsed/refractory setting, have expanded significantly in recent times. However, this comes at the cost of toxicities: medical as well as financial. We highlight some of the unique toxicities associated with the novel agents to apprise our readers about what to expect, how to recognize them, and how to manage these toxicities. One of the toxicities seen with inotuzumab, a CD22 antibody drug conjugate, is sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, which can be fatal in >80% of patients if associated with multiorgan failure. Blinatumomab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD19, is associated with cytokine release syndrome  (CRS) and neurotoxicity, both of which require prompt recognition and management  primarily with corticosteroids. CRS and neurotoxicity are more common and more severe with chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR-T). The fact that CAR-T cannot be discontinued on demand adds a layer of complexity to the management of  related toxicities of this therapy. Tocilizumab, an interleukin-6 receptor blocker, is used to treat severe CRS from CAR-T, whereas corticosteroids remain the mainstay for neurotoxicity management. Although effective, these drugs carry  a high price tag, and we review the available data on cost-effectiveness of these agents, keeping in mind that median follow-up on most of these studies is limited and that long-term data on durability of response remain to be seen."

"113. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Nov 27;11(1):132. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0677-2.","Universal CARs, universal T cells, and universal CAR T cells.","Currently, the two approved T cell products with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are from autologous T cells. These CAR T cells approved for clinical use must be  generated on a custom-made basis. This case-by-case autologous T cell production  platform remains a significant limiting factor for large-scale clinical application due to the costly and lengthy production process. There is also an inherent risk of production failure. The individualized, custom-made autologous CAR T cell production process also posts constriction on the wide application on  diverse tumor types. Therefore, universal allogeneic T cells are needed for the preparation of universal CAR T cells that can serve as the off-the-shelf ready-to-use therapeutic agents for large-scale clinical applications. Genome-editing technologies including ZFN (zinc finger nuclease), TALEN (transcription activator-like effector nuclease), and CRISPR-Cas9 are being used  to generate the universal third-party T cells. In addition, split, universal, and programmable (SUPRA) CARs are being developed to enhance the flexibility and controllability of CAR T cells. The engineered universal T cells and universal CARs are paving the road for a totally new generation of CAR T cells capable of targeting multiple antigens and/ or being delivered to multiple recipients without re-editing of T cells. This may escalate to a new wave of revolution in cancer immunotherapy. This review summarized the latest advances on designs and development of universal CARs, universal T cells, and clinical application of universal CAR T cells."

"114. Cancer Gene Ther. 2018 Nov 22. doi: 10.1038/s41417-018-0062-x. [Epub ahead of print]","Targeting GD2-positive glioblastoma by chimeric antigen receptor empowered mesenchymal progenitors.","Tumor targeting by genetically modified mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (MSCs) carrying anti-cancer molecules represents a promising cell-based strategy. We previously showed that the pro-apoptotic agent tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) can be successfully delivered by MSCs to cancer sites. While the interaction between TRAIL and its receptors is clear, more obscure is the way in which MSCs can selectively target tumors and their antigens. Several neuroectoderm-derived neoplasms, including glioblastoma (GBM),  sarcomas, and neuroblastoma, express high levels of the tumor-associated antigen  GD2. We have already challenged this cell surface disialoganglioside by a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell approach against neuroblastoma. With the intent to maximize the therapeutic profile of MSCs delivering TRAIL, we here originally developed a bi-functional strategy where TRAIL is delivered by MSCs that are also gene modified with the truncated form of the anti-GD2 CAR (GD2 tCAR) to mediate an immunoselective recognition of GD2-positive tumors. These bi-functional MSCs expressed high levels of TRAIL and GD2 tCAR associated with a  robust anti-tumor activity against GD2-positive GBM cells. Most importantly, the  anti-cancer action was reinforced by the enhanced targeting potential of such bi-functional cells. Collectively, our results suggest that a truncated anti-GD2  CAR might be a powerful new tool to redirect MSCs carrying TRAIL against GD2-expressing tumors. This affinity-based dual targeting holds the promise to combine site-specific and prolonged retention of MSCs in GD2-expressing tumors, thereby providing a more effective delivery of TRAIL for still incurable cancers."

"115. Front Oncol. 2018 Nov 22;8:539. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00539. eCollection 2018.","A Unique Human Immunoglobulin Heavy Chain Variable Domain-Only CD33 CAR for the Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a challenging pediatric and adult disease. Given the elevated expression of the CD33 antigen on leukemic blasts, therapeutic approaches to AML now feature the approved antibody drug conjugate (Mylotarg, GO) and investigational CART cell approaches incorporating CD33-binding domains derived from humanized scFvs. We designed a functional chimeric antigen receptor  utilizing a human targeting sequence, derived from a heavy chain variable domain, termed CAR33VH. Lentiviral-based expression vectors which encoded CAR constructs  incorporating the novel binding domain (CAR33VH), or the My96 scFv control binder (My96CAR) in frame with a CD8 hinge and transmembrane domain, a 4-1BB costimulatory domain and a CD3 zeta activation domain, were transduced into primary human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and CAR expression was confirmed by flow cytometry. CAR33VH, similar to My96CAR, demonstrated robust and specific cytotoxicity in short-term and long-term co-incubation killing assays against CD33+ AML lines. In overnight cytokine release assays in which CAR T cells were challenged with the CD33+ tumor cells HL-60, MOLM-14 and KG-1a, CAR33VH elicited  IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha and IL-2. This was seen with CD33+ cell lines, but not when  CAR T were cultured alone. Studies with a CD33- cell line engineered to stably express the full length CD33 variant 1, or the naturally occurring CD33 splice variant 2, revealed that both CAR33VH and My96CAR, target the V domain of CD33, suggesting a similar therapeutic profile. Colony-formation assays utilizing peripheral blood CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells treated with CAR33VH, My96CAR, or with an untransduced T cell control, yielded similar numbers of BFU-E erythroid and CFU-GM myeloid colonies, suggesting a lack of CAR-related overt toxicity. In  an in vivo AML model, NSG mice engrafted with MOLM-14 cells stably expressing firefly luciferase, both CAR33VH and CARMy96 efficiently eliminated tumors. In conclusion, we demonstrate for the first time the feasibility and efficacy of employing human variable domain-only binder derived from a phage display library  in an anti-AML CAR design. CAR33VH, comprised of a human heavy-chain variable fragment-only antigen binding domain, was efficient in tumor killing in vitro and in vivo, and showed comparable functionality to the scFv-based My96CAR."

"116. BMC Cancer. 2018 Nov 20;18(1):1143. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-5037-7.","CAR-T bridging to allo-HSCT as a treatment strategy for relapsed adult acute B-lymphoblastic leukemia: a case report.","BACKGROUND: Adults with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have a poor prognosis, especially in patients who relapsed within 6 months of complete remission 1 (CR1). Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is the treatment of choice. However, this can only be considered after complete remission 2 (CR2) is achieved. Therefore, bridging treatment is urgently needed. CASE PRESENTATION: In the present study, we report a relapsed adult B-cell ALL case that achieved CR2 after treatment with CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cell (CAR-T) therapy. After subsequent allo-HSCT, the patient acquired 21 months of disease-free survival. CONCLUSION: The present results confirm that both CAR-T and allo-HSCT are effective for treating refractory or relapsed B-ALL. However, a novel sequential  treatment strategy with these two therapeutic methods may achieve longer disease-free survival time."

"117. Cell Discov. 2018 Nov 20;4:62. doi: 10.1038/s41421-018-0066-6. eCollection 2018.","A novel antibody-TCR (AbTCR) platform combines Fab-based antigen recognition with gamma/delta-TCR signaling to facilitate T-cell cytotoxicity with low cytokine release.","The clinical use of genetically modified T-cell therapies has led to unprecedented response rates in leukemia and lymphoma patients treated with anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T. Despite this clinical success, FDA-approved T-cell therapies are currently limited to B-cell malignancies, and challenges remain with managing cytokine-related toxicities. We have designed a novel antibody-T-cell receptor (AbTCR) platform where we combined the Fab domain  of an antibody with the γ and δ chains of the TCR as the effector domain. We demonstrate the ability of anti-CD19-AbTCR-T cells to trigger antigen-specific cytokine production, degranulation, and killing of CD19-positive cancer cells in  vitro and in xenograft mouse models. By using the same anti-CD19 binding moiety on an AbTCR compared to a CAR platform, we demonstrate that AbTCR activates cytotoxic T-cell responses with a similar dose-response as CD28/CD3ζ CAR, yet does so with less cytokine release and results in T cells with a less exhausted phenotype. Moreover, in comparative studies with the clinically validated CD137 (4-1BB)-based CAR, CTL019, our anti-CD19-AbTCR shows less cytokine release and comparable tumor inhibition in a patient-derived xenograft leukemia model."

"119. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Nov 20;11(1):130. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0676-3.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.","Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a common type of B cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder in adults, has witnessed enormous development in its treatment in recent years. New drugs such as ibrutinib, idelalisib, and venetoclax have achieved great success in treating relapsed and refractory (R/R)  CLL. In addition, with the development of immunotherapy, chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells (CAR-T) therapy, a novel adoptive immune treatment, has also become more and more important in treating R/R CLL. It combines the advantages of T cells and B cells via ex vivo gene transfer technology and is able to bind targets recognized by specific antibodies without antigen presentation, thus breaking the restriction of major histocompatibility complex.  So far, there have been lots of studies exploring the application of CAR-T therapy in CLL. In this review, we describe the structure of chimeric antigen receptor, the preclinical, and clinical results of CAR-T therapy against CLL, along with its adverse events and advances in efficacy."

"120. Front Immunol. 2018 Nov 19;9:2268. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02268. eCollection 2018.","Effective Targeting of TAG72+ Peritoneal Ovarian Tumors via Regional Delivery of  CAR-Engineered T Cells.","Impressive clinical efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cell therapy for hematological malignancies have prompted significant efforts in achieving similar responses in solid tumors. The lack of truly restricted and uniform expression of tumor-associated antigens, as well as limited T cell persistence and/or tumor trafficking pose major challenges for successful translation of CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors. Recent studies have demonstrated that aberrantly glycosylated cell surface proteins on tumor cells are amenable CAR targets. Tumor-associated glycoprotein 72 (TAG72) antigen is the sialyl-Tn found on multiple O-glycoproteins expressed at high levels on the surface of several cancer types, including ovarian cancer. Here, we developed a humanized TAG72-specific CAR containing a 4-1BB intracellular co-stimulatory signaling domain (TAG72-BBζ). TAG72-BBζ CAR T cells showed potent antigen-dependent cytotoxicity and cytokine production against multiple TAG72+ ovarian cancer cell lines and patient-derived ovarian cancer ascites. Using in vivo xenograft models of peritoneal ovarian tumors, regional intraperitoneal delivery of TAG72-BBζ CAR T cells significantly reduced tumor growth, extended overall survival of mice, and was further improved with repeat infusions of CAR T cells. However, reduced TAG72 expression was observed in early recurring tumors,  which coincided with a lack of T cell persistence. Taken together, we demonstrate efficacy with TAG72-CAR T cells in ovarian cancer, warranting further investigations as a CAR T cell therapeutic strategy for this disease."

"121. Cancer Cell Int. 2018 Nov 14;18:182. doi: 10.1186/s12935-018-0685-x. eCollection  2018.","Chimeric antigen receptors: unleashing a new age of anti-cancer therapy.","Background: Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) represent a novel facet of modern day synthetic biology that exemplifies personalized medicine at work through their ability to harness and redirect a patients immune system to fight cancer. Body: By combining the target-specificity of antibodies to the effector capabilities of T cells, CARs have yielded high remission rates for many late staged and relapsed/refractory (r/r) hematological malignancies, including acute  lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) and Non-Hodgkins lymphomas. Despite toxicities of  cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, recent studies have uncovered their  underlying mechanisms and devised effective therapies to manage and possibly prevent them. In 2017, CAR T cell therapy became a reality for the general public despite the high costs, when Novartiss Kymriah, became the first product to receive FDA approval for pediatric r/r B cell ALL with Gileads Yescarta following several months later. Although effective in hematological malignancies, CAR response has been limited in solid tumors largely attributed to the heterogeneous and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment along tumor defense mechanisms, such as antigenic escape. Conclusion: Despite the current challenges of CAR T therapy, this technology is still in its infancy and its promise will continue to grow as scientists continue to develop novel approaches to enhance its efficacy. As its prevalence continues  to increase, institutions and pharmaceuticals worldwide are investing in this technology in hopes of driving therapeutic innovation, while providing greater access to their respective populations through clinical trials."

"122. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2018 Nov 14;19(12):74. doi: 10.1007/s11864-018-0584-3.","Review of Immune Therapies Targeting Ovarian Cancer.","OPINION STATEMENT: The rise of immunotherapy is the greatest advance in oncology  to occur over the last several years, but applications in gynecologic malignancies lag behind other tumors. The term immunotherapy envelops monoclonal antibodies as receptor mediators, including immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPI), cancer vaccines, and adoptive immunotherapies alone or in combination with other therapeutic approaches. The purpose of this review is to summarize the status of immunotherapy trials in ovarian cancer and to specifically highlight data published in the last 1-2 years."

"123. Hematol Oncol. 2018 Nov 14. doi: 10.1002/hon.2568. [Epub ahead of print]","The acceleration of CAR-T therapy in non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","Recent advances in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas have included both identification of high-risk subtypes characterized by multiply relapsed and/or refractory disease as well as novel treatment in the form of cellular therapy. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy is a recently developed approach to address the poor outcomes in this patient population. The CAR-T cell construct has evolved although several iterations as it transitioned from the lab to the clinic. Three major studies have evaluated the efficacy of CD19-directed CAR-T cell therapy in aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma; each demonstrating durable complete remissions in heavily pretreated patients. The cost of this remarkable therapy, however, includes cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity shortly after administration as well as delayed infectious complications due to B-cell aplasia. Future investigations are focused on the optimizing both safety and efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy."

"124. Acta Clin Belg. 2018 Nov 13:1-7. doi: 10.1080/17843286.2018.1545373. [Epub ahead  of print]","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy: design improvements and therapeutic strategies in cancer treatment.","OBJECTIVES: To summarize important findings from research on chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy in cancer. We discuss CAR design, cell products, toxicity management, heterogenous solid tumors and allogeneic transfer. METHODS: A review of literature was conducted. The available literature was selected on original research, state-of-the art design, relevance to the objective and journal impact factor. RESULTS: First-generation CARs provide patient T cells with tumor-specific antigen recognition. Second- and third-generation CARs incorporate costimulatory  domains for enhanced T-cell persistence and antitumor activity. Fourth-generation CAR T cells (TRUCKs) include a cytokine production cassette, and hold promise in  the treatment of heterogenous solid tumors. Transduced cell phenotype and subset  composition are important factors. Suicide genes and safety switches are designed to decrease potential toxicity. Multi-specific CAR T cells can address heterogenous tumors. Allogeneic, off-the-shelf CAR T cells might reduce the production delay. CONCLUSION: CAR T cells have revolutionized the immunotherapeutic treatment of cancer: exciting results in refractory and relapsed B-cell malignancies have been published. Neurologic complications, solid tumor management and allogeneic constructs require further research. In conclusion, further design adjustments will enable CAR T cells to decisively reshape the field of cancer immunotherapy."

"128. Turk J Haematol. 2018 Nov 13;35(4):217-228. doi: 10.4274/tjh.2018.0196. Epub 2018 Sep 6.","CAR-T Cell Therapy: A Door Is Open to Find Innumerable Possibilities of Treatments for Cancer Patients","Seven years ago a chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient was for the first time successfully treated with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells (CAR-T cells) to target CD19 overexpression in tumor cells. This was the beginning of the development of a new type of immunotherapy treatment in cancer patients. Since then, identification of novel antigens expressed in tumor cells and optimization of both CAR constructs and protocols of administration have opened up new avenues for the successful treatment of other hematological malignancies.  However, research still continues to avoid some problems such as toxicities associated with the treatment and to find strategies to avoid tumor cell immune evasion mechanisms. On the other hand, for solid tumors, CAR-T therapy results are still in an early phase. In contrast to hematological malignancies, the complex tumor heterogeneity of solid tumors has led to the research of novel and  challenging strategies to improve CAR-T cell activity. Here, we will review the main clinical results obtained with CAR-T cells in hematological malignancies, specifically focusing on CAR-T-19 and CAR-T against B-cell maturation antigen (CAR-T-BCMA). Moreover, we will mention the main problems that decrease CAR-T cell activity in solid tumors and the strategies to overcome them. Finally, we will present some of the first clinical results obtained for solid tumors."

"129. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2018 Nov 12;12:3885-3898. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S138765. eCollection 2018.","CTL019 (tisagenlecleucel): CAR-T therapy for relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Over the past decades, survival of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has dramatically improved, but the subgroup of patients with relapsed/refractory ALL still continues to have dismal prognosis. As an emerging  therapeutic approach, chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cells (CAR-T) represent one of the few practice-changing therapies for this subgroup of patients. Originally conceived and built in Philadelphia (University of Pennsylvania), CTL019 or tisagenlecleucel, the first CAR-T approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, showed impressive results in refractory/relapsed ALL since the publication on two pediatric patients in 2013. It is in this context that we provide a review of this product in terms of manufacturing, pharmacology, toxicity, and efficacy studies. Evaluation and management of toxicities, particularly cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, is recognized as an essential part of the patient treatment with broader use of IL-6 receptor inhibitor. An under-assessed aspect, the quality of life of patients entering CAR-T cells treatment, will also be reviewed. By their unique nature, CAR-T cells such as tisagenlecleucel operate in a different way than typical drugs, but also provide unique hope for B-cell malignancies."

"130. Front Oncol. 2018 Nov 12;8:513. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00513. eCollection 2018.","Carbohydrate Targets for CAR T Cells in Solid Childhood Cancers.","Application of the CAR targeting strategy in solid tumors is challenged by the need for adequate target antigens. As a consequence of their tissue origin, embryonal cancers can aberrantly express membrane-anchored gangliosides. These are carbohydrate molecules consisting of a glycosphingolipid linked to sialic acids residues. The best-known example is the abundant expression of ganglioside  GD2 on the cell surface of neuroblastomas which derive from GD2-positive neuroectoderm. Gangliosides are involved in various cellular functions, including signal transduction, cell proliferation, differentiation, adhesion and cell death. In addition, transformation of human cells to cancer cells can be associated with distinct glycosylation profiles which provide advantages for tumor growth and dissemination and can serve as immune targets. Both gangliosides and aberrant glycosylation of proteins escape the direct molecular and proteomic  screening strategies currently applied to identify further immune targets in cancers. Due to their highly restricted expression and their functional roles in  the malignant behavior, they are attractive targets for immune engineering strategies. GD2-redirected CAR T cells have shown activity in clinical phase I/II trials in neuroblastoma and next-generation studies are ongoing. Further carbohydrate targets for CAR T cells in preclinical development are O-acetyl-GD2, NeuGc-GM3 (N-glycolyl GM3), GD3, SSEA-4, and oncofetal glycosylation variants. This review summarizes knowledge on the role and function of some membrane-expressed non-protein antigens, including gangliosides and abnormal protein glycosylation patterns, and discusses their potential to serve as a CAR targets in pediatric solid cancers."

"131. J Control Release. 2018 Nov 10;289:125-145. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.09.009. Epub 2018 Sep 14.","Immunoengineering through cancer vaccines - A personalized and multi-step vaccine approach towards precise cancer immunity.","During the last decade anti-tumor immune-therapy has opened novel opportunities to efficiently combat cancer progression. The introduction of DC- and CAR T-cell  based therapies as well as the successful application of antibody-based inhibitor of immune checkpoints (CTLA-4, PD1 and PDL1) have boosted the field and led to an overall benefit for many patients. In situ cancer vaccination is an attractive strategy to further improve the therapeutic outcome, especially towards a more personalized and individually tailored immune response against the patients mutanome. Nanoparticle-based delivery platforms can assist in combination treatments e.g. with multiple immune stimulatory signales (PAMPs and DAMPs) to increase the probability of evoking broader and all-embracing cytotoxic and memory T-cell responses. In this review, various approaches and hurdles of cancer vaccination are discussed including the beneficial contributions of the thriving  field of nanoparticle design and functionalization, which may further boost the development of cancer immunotherapeutics."

"132. J Intensive Care Med. 2018 Nov 9:885066618803863. doi: 10.1177/0885066618803863.  [Epub ahead of print]","Oncologic Emergencies-The Old, the New, and the Deadly.","Cancer continues to be a leading cause of death despite a broader understanding of its biology and the development of novel therapies. Nonetheless, with an increasing survival of this population, intensivists must be aware of the associated emergencies, both old and new. Oncologic emergencies can be seen as an initial presentation of the disease or precipitated by its treatment. In this review, we present key oncologic emergencies that may be encountered in daily practice, complications associated with innovative therapies, and treatment-related adverse events."

"134. Front Immunol. 2018 Nov 8;9:2593. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02593. eCollection 2018.","Making CAR T Cells a Solid Option for Solid Tumors.","Adoptive cell therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells aims to redirect the patients own immune system to selectively attack cancer cells. To do so, CAR T cells are endowed with specific antigen recognition moieties fused to signaling and costimulatory domains. While this approach has shown great success for the treatment of B cell malignancies, response rates among patients with solid cancers are less favorable. The major challenges for CAR T cell immunotherapy in solid cancers are the identification of unique tumor target antigens, as well as improving CAR T cell trafficking to and expansion at the tumor site. This review focuses on combinatorial antigen targeting, regional delivery and approaches to improve CAR T cell persistence in the face of a hostile tumor microenvironment."

"135. Mol Ther. 2018 Nov 7;26(11):2542-2552. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.09.008. Epub 2018 Sep 13.","Low-Dose Radiation Conditioning Enables CAR T Cells to Mitigate Antigen Escape.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have demonstrated great efficacy against a range of B cell malignancies. However, antigen escape and, more generally, heterogeneous antigen expression pose a challenge to applying CAR therapy to a wide range of cancers. We find that low-dose radiation sensitizes tumor cells to  immune rejection by locally activated CAR T cells. In a model of pancreatic adenocarcinoma heterogeneously expressing sialyl Lewis-A (sLeA), we show that not only sLeA+ but also sLeA- tumor cells exposed to low-dose radiation become susceptible to CAR therapy, reducing antigen-negative tumor relapse. RNA sequencing analysis of low-dose radiation-exposed tumors reveals the transcriptional signature of cells highly sensitive to TRAIL-mediated death. We find that sLeA-targeted CAR T cells produce TRAIL upon engaging sLeA+ tumor cells, and eliminate sLeA- tumor cells previously exposed to systemic or local low-dose radiation in a TRAIL-dependent manner. These findings enhance the prospects for successfully applying CAR therapy to heterogeneous solid tumors. Local radiation is integral to many tumors standard of care and can be easily implemented as a CAR conditioning regimen."

"136. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2018 Nov 6;11:127-137. doi: 10.1016/j.omto.2018.10.006. eCollection 2018 Dec 21.","Preclinical Development of Bivalent Chimeric Antigen Receptors Targeting Both CD19 and CD22.","Despite high remission rates following CAR-T cell therapy in B-ALL, relapse due to loss of the targeted antigen is increasingly recognized as a mechanism of immune escape. We hypothesized that simultaneous targeting of CD19 and CD22 may reduce the likelihood of antigen loss, thus improving sustained remission rates.  A systematic approach to the generation of CAR constructs incorporating two target-binding domains led to several novel CD19/CD22 bivalent CAR constructs. Importantly, we demonstrate the challenges associated with the construction of a  bivalent CAR format that preserves bifunctionality against both CD19 and CD22. Using the most active bivalent CAR constructs, we found similar transduction efficiency compared to that of either CD19 or CD22 single CARs alone. When expressed on human T cells, the optimized CD19/CD22 CAR construct induced comparable interferon γ and interleukin-2 in vitro compared to single CARs against dual-antigen-expressing as well as single-antigen-expressing cell lines.  Finally, the T cells expressing CD19/CD22 CAR eradicated ALL cell line xenografts and patient-derived xenografts (PDX), including a PDX generated from a patient with CD19- relapse following CD19-directed CAR therapy. The CD19/CD22 bivalent CAR provides an opportunity to test whether simultaneous targeting may reduce risk of antigen loss."

"137. Cell Regen (Lond). 2018 Nov 2;7(2):40-44. doi: 10.1016/j.cr.2018.09.002. eCollection 2018 Dec.","Approaches for generation of anti-leukemia specific T cells.","As three decades ago, it was reported that adoptive T cell immunotherapy by infusion of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) mediated objective cancer regression in patients with metastatic melanoma. A new era of T cell immunotherapy arose since the improvement and clinical use of anti-CD19 chimeric  antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T) for the treatment of refractory and relapsed B lymphocyte leukemia. However, several challenges and difficulties remain on the way to reach generic and effective T cell immunotherapy, including lacking a generic method for generating anti-leukemia-specific T cells from every patient.  Here, we summarize the current methods of generating anti-leukemia-specific T cells, and the promising approaches in the future."

"138. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Nov 2;8(1):e1509173. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1509173. eCollection 2019.","DNAX-activating protein 10 co-stimulation enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapies have shown remarkable efficacy in treating multiple types of hematological malignancies but are not sufficiently effective at treating solid tumors. NKG2D is a strong activating receptor for NK cells and a co-stimulatory receptor for T cells. NKG2D signal transduction depends on DNAX-activating protein 10 (DAP10). Here, we introduced the cytoplasmic domain of DAP10 into the second-generation CARs M28z and G28z to  generate M28z10 and G28z10, which target mesothelin (MSLN) and glypican 3 (GPC3), respectively. T cells expressing M28z10 or G28z10 showed enhanced and prolonged effector function against MSLN+ lung cancer or GPC3+ hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines in culture and secreted elevated levels of cytokines, including IL-2,  IFN-γ, granzyme B, and GM-CSF. In addition, M28z10 CAR-T cells showed greater anti-tumor activity than those expressing M28z in both A549 cell line xenografts  and human lung cancer patient-derived xenografts (PDX). Similarly, G28z10 exhibited higher efficacy in causing tumor regression than did G28z in hepatocellular carcinoma PDX. Therefore, our results show that DAP10 signaling contributes to the function of CAR-T cells in both lung cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma and can enhance the efficacy of CAR-T cells."

"139. Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Nov 1;8(11):2165-2175. eCollection 2018.","Exosomes in cancer therapy: a novel experimental strategy.","Exosomes are small membrane vesicles of endocytic origin secreted by most cell types. They play important roles in intercellular communications and many physiological processes. DCs-derived exosomes can prime naïve T cells and activate NK cells to shrink the tumor. Tumor-derived exosomes carry a variety of  tumor antigens that trigger the robust tumor antigen-specific immune response. Tumor-derived exosomes also contain metastasis or invasive-related molecules, which maybe potential targets for cancer immunotherapy. Effector T cells-derived  exosomes possess cytotoxic activity of their original cells, thus cause tumor cells lysis. In this review, we summarized the recent advances on the biogenesis  and composition of exosomes, the functions of anti-tumor immune response, and the promising applications on cancer immunotherapy of exosomes from different origins. Exosomes schlep efficient targets homing to tumor sites and tend to be a promising new tool of immunotherapy to fight cancer in a cell-free system."

"140. Br J Haematol. 2018 Nov;183(3):364-374. doi: 10.1111/bjh.15644. Epub 2018 Nov 8.","Cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity after CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR-) T cell therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR)-T cells have demonstrated impressive results in the treatment of haematological malignancies. However, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity are common toxicities which are potentially life-threatening in severe cases. Risk factors for CRS and neurotoxicity identified so far include disease burden, lymphodepletion intensity and CAR-T cell dose administered. Risk-adapted dosing, with lower CAR-T cell doses administered to B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia patients with high marrow blast counts, has been successful at decreasing severe CRS rates in this population. Intervention with therapies, such as tocilizumab and corticosteroids, have been effective at ameliorating toxicity, enabling CAR-T cells to be administered safely to many patients without significantly compromising efficacy. Deeper understanding of the pathophysiology of underlying CRS and neurotoxicity will enable the development of novel approaches to reduce toxicity and improve outcomes."

"141. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2018 Nov;82(5):815-827. doi: 10.1007/s00280-018-3670-0. Epub 2018 Aug 21.","Development of NKG2D-based chimeric antigen receptor-T cells for gastric cancer treatment.","Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related mortalities worldwide and mostly incurable. It remains an urgent need for novel strategies in the management of patients with advanced gastric cancer. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T therapy has shown unprecedented clinical success in hematological malignancies and potential utility is going on various solid tumors like gastric  cancer. In this study, a broad expression of NKG2D ligands was observed in gastric cancer cell lines, making them suitable targets for gastric cancer therapy. T cells were engineered with an NKG2D-based second-generation CAR and the resulting NKG2D-CAR-T cells showed significantly increased cytolytic activity against gastric cancer compared to untransduced T cells. In vivo, these cells can significantly suppressed the growth of established gastric cancer xenografts. Besides, cisplatin was shown to upregulate NKG2D ligand expression in gastric cancer cells and enhance the susceptibility to NKG2D-CAR-T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. In conclusion, NKG2D-based CAR-T cells have potent in vivo and in vitro anti-tumor activities against gastric cancer and could be a new paradigm for patients with gastric cancer, either used alone or combined with chemotherapy."

"142. Cancer Discov. 2018 Nov;8(11):1341. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-ND2018-008. Epub 2018 Oct 5.","CAR T-cell Therapy for Solid Tumors?","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"143. Cancer Discov. 2018 Nov;8(11):OF2. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-NB2018-125. Epub 2018 Sep 24.","Modified T Cells Home to Brain Tumors.","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"144. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Nov;67(11):1753-1765. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2199-8. Epub 2018 Aug 24.","Chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, autophagy and cell cycle arrest are key drivers of synergy in chemo-immunotherapy of epithelial ovarian cancer.","Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the most lethal of all gynecological malignancies in the UK. Recent evidence has shown that there is potential for immunotherapies to be successful in treating this cancer. We have previously shown the effective application of combinations of traditional chemotherapy and CAR (chimeric antigen receptor) T cell immunotherapy in in vitro and in vivo models of EOC. Platinum-based chemotherapy synergizes with ErbB-targeted CAR T cells (named T4), significantly reducing tumor burden in mice. Here, we show that paclitaxel synergizes with T4 as well, and look into the mechanisms behind the effectiveness of chemo-immunotherapy in our system. Impairment of caspase activity using pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD reveals this chemotherapy-induced apoptotic pathway as an essential factor in driving synergy. Mannose-6-phosphate  receptor-mediated autophagy and the arrest of cell cycle in G2/M are also shown to be induced by chemotherapy and significantly contributing to the synergy. Increased expression of PD-1 on T4 CAR T cells occurred when these were in culture with ovarian tumor cells; on the other hand, EOC cell lines showed increased PD-L1 expression following chemotherapy treatment. These findings provided a rationale to look into testing PD-1 blockade in combination with paclitaxel and T4 immunotherapy. Combination of these three agents in mice resulted in significant reduction of tumor burden, compared to each treatment alone. In conclusion, the mechanism driving synergy in chemo-immunotherapy of EOC is multifactorial. A deeper understanding of such process is needed to better design combination therapies and carefully stratify patients."

"145. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Nov;6(11):1314-1326. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0044. Epub 2018 Sep 10.","Selective Targeting of Glioblastoma with EGFRvIII/EGFR Bitargeted Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell.","The heterogeneous expression of EGFRvIII [variant III mutant of epidermal growth  factor receptor (EGFR)] in glioblastoma has significant impact on the clinical response to the treatment of EGFRvIII-specific chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T (CAR T) cells. We hypothesized that CAR T cells that could  target both EGFRvIII and the form of EGFR expressed on tumor cells, but not EGFR  on normal cells, would greatly improve efficacy without inducing on-target, off-tumor toxicity. Therefore, we developed a humanized single-chain antibody, M27, with a single specificity that binds to an epitope found both on wild-type EGFR- and EGFRvIII-overexpressing tumor cells, but not EGFR-expressing normal cells, including primary keratinocytes, on which wild-type EGFR is highly expressed. M27-derived CAR T cells effectively lysed EGFRvIII- or EGFR-overexpressing tumor cells, but showed no observable toxicity on normal cells. Inclusion of the CD137 (4-1BB) costimulatory intracellular domain in the M27-28BBZ CAR provided CAR T cells with higher tumor lysis activity than when not included (as in the M27-28Z CAR). The growth of established EGFR- or EGFRvIII-overexpressing glioma xenografts was suppressed by M27-28BBZ CAR T cells as well. The growth of heterogeneic xenograft tumors, created by mixing EGFR- and EGFR-overexpressing glioblastoma cells, was also effectively inhibited by M27-28BBZ CAR T cells. The survival of mice in the orthotopic models was significantly prolonged after M27-28BBZ CAR T-cell infusion. These results suggested that tumor-selective, bitargeted anti-EGFR/EGFRvIII CAR T cells may be  a promising modality for the treatment of patients with EGFR/EGFRvIII-overexpressing glioblastoma. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(11); 1314-26. ©2018 AACR."

"146. EMBO Mol Med. 2018 Nov;10(11). pii: e9158. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201809158.","In vivo generation of human CD19-CAR T cells results in B-cell depletion and signs of cytokine release syndrome.",""

"147. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Nov;18(11):1095-1106. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1533951. Epub 2018 Oct 12.","Tisagenlecleucel-T for the treatment of acute lymphocytic leukemia.","INTRODUCTION: Cellular immunotherapy with autologous or allogeneic T cells, genetically engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) or T-cell receptors, in order to redirect their cytotoxic specificity toward malignant cells, is emerging as a promising new treatment modality. The most advanced approach in clinical development is the use of anti-CD19 CAR T-cells for the treatment of CD19+ B-cell malignancies, including acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Areas covered: Recently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first anti-CD19 CAR T-cell product, tisagenlecleucel, for the treatment of pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory ALL. In this overview, we described the advances in the field, including a summary of clinical trials with tisagenlecleucel in ALL published to date. Expert opinion: CAR T-cell therapy has been developed in the context of small clinical studies and very few  centers have had to deal with the challenges of managing CAR T-cells administration. However, this approach is likely to become a standard option for  patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell lineage ALL."

"149. J Immunother. 2018 Nov/Dec;41(9):406-410. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000243.","Hemofiltration Successfully Eliminates Severe Cytokine Release Syndrome Following CD19 CAR-T-Cell Therapy.","Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) remains to be a major adverse effect of chimeric  antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and lymphoma. It was urgent to explore novel strategy for managing severe CRS. We conducted a clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of CD19-targeting CAR-T-cells in the treatment of relapsed and chemotherapy-refractory B-ALL and lymphoma. A 10-year-old boy with B-ALL who never achieved minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status after 5 courses of  chemotherapy was enrolled into our study and received a total of 3.19×10/kg autologous CD19 CAR-T-cells. Before CAR-T-cell infusion, naive lymphocytes made up 41.8% of bone marrow cells, which were reduced to 1% at the 14th day after transfusion, with MRD<10. However, this patient developed grade 4 CRS, multiple organ failure, hemophagocytic syndrome, neurotoxicity, and severe pulmonary infection after CAR-T-cell therapy. Tocilizumab and glucocorticoids treatment were ineffective for controlling the adverse effects and in contrast, hemofiltration immediately ameliorated the severe CRS and prevented the exacerbation of multiple organ dysfunction, pneumonia, and hydrosarca caused by CAR-T-cell therapy. All side effects disappeared within days following hemofiltration. Hemofiltration helped quickly clear cytokines, speeded up patient recover, and successfully resolved the severe CRS crisis. This was the first report, reporting the successful use of hemofiltration to eliminate adverse reactions of CAR-T-cell therapy."

"150. Leukemia. 2018 Nov;32(11):2307-2315. doi: 10.1038/s41375-018-0285-8. Epub 2018 Oct 12.","CAR T-cells for T-cell malignancies: challenges in distinguishing between therapeutic, normal, and neoplastic T-cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells targeting CD19 demonstrated remarkable efficacy for the treatment of B-cell malignancies. The development of CAR T-cells against T-cell malignancies appears more challenging due to the similarities between the therapeutic, normal and malignant T-cells. The obstacles include CAR  T-cell fratricide, T-cell aplasia, and contamination of CAR T-cell products with  malignant T-cells. Here, we review these challenges and propose solutions to overcome these limitations."

"151. Mol Neurobiol. 2018 Nov;55(11):8236-8242. doi: 10.1007/s12035-018-0978-z. Epub 2018 Mar 9.","Role of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy in Glioblastoma Multiforme.","Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common primary malignant cancer of brain, which is extremely aggressive and carries a dreadful prognosis. Current treatment protocol runs around radiotherapy, surgical resection, and temozolomide with median overall survival of around 12-15 months. Due to its heterogeneity and mutational load, immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy can be a promising treatment option for recurrent glioblastoma. Initial phase 1 studies have shown that this therapy is safe without dose-limiting side effects and it also has a better clinical outcome. Therefore, CAR T cell therapy  can be a great future tool in our armamentarium to treat advanced GBM. In this article, we have explained the structure, mechanism of action, and rationale of CAR T cell therapy in GBM; we also discussed various antigenic targets and clinical outcome of initial studies of this novel therapy."

"152. Sci China Life Sci. 2018 Nov;61(11):1320-1332. doi: 10.1007/s11427-018-9411-4. Epub 2018 Nov 7.","Genetic engineering of T cells with chimeric antigen receptors for hematological  malignancy immunotherapy.","The host immune system plays an instrumental role in the surveillance and elimination of tumors by recognizing and destroying cancer cells. In recent decades, studies have mainly focused on adoptive immunotherapy using engineered T cells for the treatment of malignant diseases. Through gene engraftment of the patients own T cells with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), they can recognize tumor specific antigens effectively and eradicate selectively targeted cells in an MHC-independent fashion. To date, CAR-T cell therapy has shown great clinical  utility in patients with B-cell leukemias. Owing to different CAR designs and tumor complex microenvironments, genetically redirected T cells may generate diverse biological properties and thereby impact their long-term clinical performance and outcome. Meanwhile some unexpected toxicities that result from CAR-T cell application have been examined and limited the curative effects. Diverse important parameters are closely related with adoptively transferred cell behaviors, including CAR-T cells homing, CAR constitutive signaling, T cell differentiation and exhaustion. Thus, understanding CARs molecular design to improve infused cell efficacy and safety is crucial to clinicians and patients who are considering this novel cancer therapeutics. In this review, the developments in CAR-T cell therapy and the limitations and perspectives in optimizing this technology towards clinical application are discussed."

"153. Front Immunol. 2018 Oct 29;9:2493. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02493. eCollection 2018.","Engineering CAR-T Cells for Improved Function Against Solid Tumors.","Genetic engineering T cells to create clinically applied chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells has led to improved patient outcomes for some forms of hematopoietic malignancies. While this has inspired the biomedical community to develop similar strategies to treat solid tumor patients, challenges such as the  immunosuppressive character of the tumor microenvironment, CAR-T cell persistence and trafficking to the tumor seem to limit CAR-T cell efficacy in solid cancers.  This review provides an overview of mechanisms that tumors exploit to evade eradication by CAR-T cells as well as emerging approaches that incorporate genetic engineering technologies to improve CAR-T cell activity against solid tumors."

"154. Front Immunol. 2018 Oct 26;9:2486. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02486. eCollection 2018.","Expanding the Therapeutic Window for CAR T Cell Therapy in Solid Tumors: The Knowns and Unknowns of CAR T Cell Biology.","A major obstacle for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in solid tumors is the lack of truly tumor-specific target antigens, which translates to the targeting of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) overexpressed on tumors but shared with normal organs, raising safety concerns. In addition, expression of TAAs in solid tumors is particularly heterogeneous. In this regard, it is critical to deeply understand the sensitivity of CAR T cells, especially against  low-density targets and the possible therapeutic window of antigen density targeted by CAR T cells. In this review, we discuss the recent findings of mechanisms of antigen recognition through CAR, including immunological synapse formation, and the impact of target antigen density for induction of distinct T cell functions. We also discuss rational strategies to adjust and expand the therapeutic window for effective and safe targeting of solid tumors by CAR T cell platforms."

"155. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Oct 25;19(11). pii: E3326. doi: 10.3390/ijms19113326.","Receptor-Targeted Glial Brain Tumor Therapies.","Among primary brain tumors, malignant gliomas are notably difficult to manage. The higher-grade tumors represent an unmet need in medicine. There have been extensive efforts to implement receptor-targeted therapeutic approaches directed  against gliomas. These approaches include immunotherapies, such as vaccines, adoptive immunotherapy, and passive immunotherapy. Targeted cytotoxic radio energy and pro-drug activation have been designed specifically for brain tumors.  The field of targeting through receptors progressed significantly with the discovery of an interleukin 13 receptor alpha 2 (IL-13RA2) as a tumor-associated  receptor over-expressed in most patients with glioblastoma (GBM) but not in normal brain. IL-13RA2 has been exploited in novel experimental therapies with very encouraging clinical responses. Other receptors are specifically over-expressed in many patients with GBM, such as EphA2 and EphA3 receptors, among others. These findings are important in view of the heterogeneity of GBM tumors and multiple tumor compartments responsible for tumor progression and resistance to therapies. The combined targeting of multiple receptors in different tumor compartments should be a preferred way to design novel receptor-targeted therapeutic approaches in gliomas."

"156. Cureus. 2018 Oct 23;10(10):e3486. doi: 10.7759/cureus.3486.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy: A Beacon of Hope in the Fight Against Cancer.","Despite significant advancements, relapses, and persistent malignancies are still a major challenge faced by the oncologists. Immunotherapy has shown remarkable potential in induction of sustained remission in refractory malignancies. Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy is a newer treatment methodology approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The chimeric pairing of an antigen receptor with the T-cell receptor (TCR) intracellular signaling domain allows cluster of designation 8 (CD8) cytotoxic T-cells to target cell surface makers independent of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) activation. Another  essential feature which contributes to the broad applicability of CARs and expanding their potential targets is their ability to bind not only to proteins but also to carbohydrate and glycolipid structures. Their antigen-specific and targeted immune responses have shown promising outcomes in clinical trials particularly involving B-cell malignancies and solid tumors. High remission rates and low percentages of relapses have caused a paradigm shift in the treatment of  relapsed or refractory cancers. Challenges include side effects such as cytokine  release syndrome, on-target off-tumor toxicities, and replication of its success  in treating solid tumors. The burden of side effects and hefty cost of treatment  are major obstacles which could hinder its progress globally. Nevertheless, ongoing research would only result in a maximized therapeutic potential in addition to more patient- and cost-friendly treatment. In this review, we aim to  provide the readers an overview of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, a relatively new advancement in the world of immuno-oncology and thereby also discussing its advantages, side effects and future challenges."

"157. Front Immunol. 2018 Oct 23;9:2460. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02460. eCollection 2018.","CAR-T Cells and Oncolytic Viruses: Joining Forces to Overcome the Solid Tumor Challenge.","Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells has resulted in unprecedented rates of long-lasting complete responses in patients with leukemia and lymphoma. However, despite the impressive results in patients with hematologic malignancies, CAR-T cells have showed limited effect against solid cancers. New approaches will need to simultaneously overcome the multiple challenges that CAR-T cells encounter in solid tumors, including the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and heterogeneity of antigen expression. Oncolytic viruses are lytic and immunogenic anti-cancer agents with the potential to synergize with CAR-T cells for the treatment of solid tumors. In addition, viruses can be further modified to deliver therapeutic transgenes selectively to  the tumor microenvironment, which could enhance the effector functions of tumor-specific T cells. This review summarizes the major limitations of CAR-T cells in solid tumors and discusses the potential role for oncolytic viruses as partners for CAR-T cells in the fight against cancer."

"158. Clin Immunol. 2018 Oct 19. pii: S1521-6616(18)30448-0. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2018.10.009. [Epub ahead of print]","2B4 (CD244, SLAMF4) and CS1 (CD319, SLAMF7) in systemic lupus erythematosus and cancer.","Signaling Lymphocyte Activation Molecule (SLAM) family receptors are expressed on different types of hematopoietic cells and play important role in immune regulation in health and disease. 2B4 (CD244, SLAMF4) and CS1 (CD319, CRACC, SLAMF7) were originally identified as NK cell receptors regulating NK cell cytolytic activity. 2B4 is expressed on all NK cells, a subpopulation of T cells, monocytes and basophils. Unlike other activating and inhibitory receptors, 2B4 (CD244) interaction with its ligand CD48 has been shown to mediate both activating and inhibitory functions. Defective signaling via 2B4 due to mutations in signaling adaptor SAP contributes to X-linked lymphoproliferative Disease (XLP). Expression of 2B4 and CS1 are altered in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). CS1 is overexpressed in multiple myeloma (MM) and anti-CS1 mab (Elotuzumab/Empliciti) has been approved by FDA as a breakthrough drug for treatment for MM patients. CAR -T cells or CAR- NK cells containing full length CS1 or the signaling domain of 2B4 with TCR-ζ have shown promising results to treat cancer and autoimmune diseases."

"159. Genes Immun. 2018 Oct 19. doi: 10.1038/s41435-018-0048-6. [Epub ahead of print]","Cell death in cancer in the era of precision medicine.","Tumors constitute a large class of diseases that affect different organs and cell lineages. The molecular characterization of cancers of a given type has revealed  an extraordinary heterogeneity in terms of genetic alterations and DNA mutations; heterogeneity that is further highlighted by single-cell DNA sequencing of individual patients. To address these issues, drugs that specifically target genes or altered pathways in cancer cells are continuously developed. Indeed, the genetic fingerprint of individual tumors can direct the modern therapeutic approaches to selectively hit the tumor cells while sparing the healthy ones. In  this context, the concept of precision medicine finds a vast field of application. In this review, we will briefly list some classes of target drugs (Bcl-2 family modulators, Tyrosine Kinase modulators, PARP inhibitors, and growth factors inhibitors) and discuss the application of immunotherapy in tumors (T cell-mediated immunotherapy and CAR-T cells) that in recent years has drastically changed the prognostic outlook of aggressive cancers. We will also consider how apoptosis could represent a primary end point in modern cancer therapy and how classic chemotherapeutic drugs that induce apoptosis are still utilized in therapeutic schedules that involve the use of target drugs or immunotherapy to optimize the antitumor response."

"160. Front Oncol. 2018 Oct 17;8:453. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00453. eCollection 2018.","CART Immunotherapy: Development, Success, and Translation to Malignant Gliomas and Other Solid Tumors.","T cell chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) technology has allowed for the introduction of a high degree of tumor selectivity into adoptive cell transfer therapies. Evolution of this technology has produced a robust antitumor immunotherapeutic strategy that has resulted in dramatic outcomes in liquid cancers. CAR-expressing T-cells (CARTs) targeting CD19 and CD20 have been successfully used in the treatment of hematologic malignancies, producing sustained tumor regressions in a majority of treated patients. These encouraging  results have led to a historic and unprecedented FDA approval of CTL019, Novartis CAR T-cell therapy for the treatment of children and young adults with  relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, the translation of this technology to solid tumors, like malignant gliomas (MG), has  thus far been unsuccessful. This review provides a timely analysis of the factors leading to the success of CART immunotherapy in the setting of hematologic malignancies, barriers limiting its success in the treatment of solid tumors, and approaches to overcome these challenges and allow the application of CART immunotherapy as a treatment modality for refractory tumors, like malignant gliomas, that are in desperate need of effective therapies."

"161. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Oct 17;12:19-31. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.10.006. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Surface-Engineered Lentiviral Vectors for Selective Gene Transfer into Subtypes of Lymphocytes.","Lymphocytes have always been among the prime targets in gene therapy, even more so since chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have reached the clinic. However, other gene therapeutic approaches hold great promise as well. The first  part of this review provides an overview of current strategies in lymphocyte gene therapy. The second part highlights the importance of precise gene delivery into  B and T cells as well as distinct subtypes of lymphocytes. This can be achieved with lentiviral vectors (LVs) pseudotyped with engineered glycoproteins recognizing lymphocyte surface markers as entry receptors. Different strategies for envelope glycoprotein engineering and selection of the targeting ligand are discussed. With a CD8-targeted LV that was recently used to achieve proof of principle for the in vivo reprogramming of CAR T cells, these vectors are becoming a key tool to genetically engineer lymphocytes directly in vivo."

"162. Front Immunol. 2018 Oct 16;9:2380. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02380. eCollection 2018.","CAR T Cell Therapy for Neuroblastoma.","Patients with high risk neuroblastoma have a poor prognosis and survivors are often left with debilitating long term sequelae from treatment. Even after integration of anti-GD2 monoclonal antibody therapy into standard, upftont protocols, 5-year overall survival rates are only about 50%. The success of anti-GD2 therapy has proven that immunotherapy can be effective in neuroblastoma. Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells has the potential to build on this success. In early phase clinical trials, CAR T cell therapy for neuroblastoma has proven safe and feasible, but significant barriers to efficacy  remain. These include lack of T cell persistence and potency, difficulty in target identification, and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. With recent advances in CAR T cell engineering, many of these issues are being addressed in the laboratory. In this review, we summarize the clinical trials that have been completed or are underway for CAR T cell therapy in neuroblastoma, discuss the conclusions and open questions derived from these trials, and consider potential strategies to improve CAR T cell therapy for patients with neuroblastoma."

"163. J Vis Exp. 2018 Oct 16;(140). doi: 10.3791/58492.","A Syngeneic Mouse B-Cell Lymphoma Model for Pre-Clinical Evaluation of CD19 CAR T Cells.","The astonishing clinical success of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has led to the approval of two second generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) andnon-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The focus of the field is now on emulating these successes in other hematological malignancies where less impressive complete response rates are observed. Further engineering of CAR T cells or co-administration of other treatment modalities may successfully overcome obstacles to successful therapy in other cancer settings. We therefore present a model in which others can conduct pre-clinical testing of CD19 CAR T cells. Results in this well tested B-cell lymphoma model are likely to be informative CAR T-cell therapy in general. This protocol allows the reproducible production of mouse CAR T cells through calcium  phosphate transfection of Plat-E producer cells with MP71 retroviral constructs and pCL-Eco packaging plasmid followed by collection of secreted retroviral particles and transduction using recombinant human fibronectin fragment and centrifugation. Validation of retroviral transduction, and confirmation of the ability of CAR T cells to kill target lymphoma cells ex vivo, through the use of  flow cytometry, luminometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), is also described. Protocols for testing CAR T cells in vivo in lymphoreplete and lymphodepleted syngeneic mice, bearing established, systemic lymphoma are described. Anti-cancer activity is monitored by in vivo bioluminescence and disease progression. We show typical results of eradication of established B-cell lymphoma when utilizing 1st or 2nd generation CARs in combination with lymphodepleting pre-conditioning and a minority of mice achieving long term remissions when utilizing CAR T cells expressing IL-12 in lymphoreplete mice. These protocols can be used to evaluate CD19 CAR T cells with different additional modification, combinations of CAR T cells and other therapeutic agents or adapted for the use of CAR T cells against different target antigens."

"164. J Immunol Res. 2018 Oct 15;2018:4263520. doi: 10.1155/2018/4263520. eCollection 2018.","Combination Therapy with EpCAM-CAR-NK-92 Cells and Regorafenib against Human Colorectal Cancer Models."," Adoptive chimeric antigen receptor-modified T or NK cells (CAR-T or CAR-NK) offer new options for cancer treatment. CAR-T therapy has achieved encouraging breakthroughs in the treatment of hematological malignancies. However, their therapeutic efficacy against solid tumors is limited. New regimens, including combinations with chemical drugs, need to be studied to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of CAR-T or NK cells for solid tumors. An epithelial cell adhesion molecule- (EpCAM-) specific second-generation CAR was constructed and transduced  into NK-92 cells by lentiviral vectors. Immune effects, including cytokine release and cytotoxicity of the CAR-NK-92 cells against EpCAM-positive colon cancer cells, were evaluated in vitro. Synergistic effects of regorafenib and CAR-NK-92 cells were analyzed in a mouse model with human colorectal cancer xenografts. The CAR-NK-92 cells can specifically recognize EpCAM-positive colorectal cancer cells and release cytokines, including IFN-γ, perforin, and granzyme B, and show specific cytotoxicity in vitro. The growth suppression efficacy of combination therapy with regorafenib and CAR-NK-92 cells on established EpCAM-positive tumor xenografts was more significant than that of monotherapy with CAR-NK-92 cells or regorafenib. Our results provided a novel strategy to treat colorectal cancer and enhance the therapeutic efficacy of CAR-modified immune effector cells for solid tumors."

"165. Clin Immunol. 2018 Oct 13. pii: S1521-6616(18)30568-0. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2018.10.006. [Epub ahead of print]","The role of surface molecule CD229 in Multiple Myeloma.","The outcome of Multiple Myeloma (MM) patients has dramatically improved, however, most patients will still succumb to their disease. Additional therapeutic options are urgently needed and novel immunotherapies are enormously promising in the therapeutic armamentarium against MM. The first step in the development of any immunotherapy needs to be the identification of an appropriate target structure.  In this review we present the current knowledge on surface molecule CD229, a member of the Signaling Lymphocyte Activation (SLAM) family of immune receptors.  We believe that based on its characteristics, including (1) strong and homogenous expression on all myeloma cells, (2) expression on myeloma precursors, (3) absence from most normal tissues, (4) a central function in the biology of MM, CD229 (SLAMF3) represents a promising target for anti-MM immunotherapies. The introduction of novel anti-CD229 approaches into the clinic will hopefully lead to more durable responses, or maybe even cures, in MM."

"167. Neuro Oncol. 2018 Oct 9;20(11):1429-1438. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/noy032.","CAR T-cell therapy for glioblastoma: recent clinical advances and future challenges.","In patients with certain hematologic malignancies, the use of autologous T cells  genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has led to unprecedented clinical responses. Although progress in solid tumors has been elusive, recent clinical studies have demonstrated the feasibility and safety of  CAR T-cell therapy for glioblastoma. In addition, despite formidable barriers to  T-cell localization and effector function in glioblastoma, signs of efficacy have been observed in select patients. In this review, we begin with a discussion of established obstacles to systemic therapy in glioblastoma and how these may be overcome by CAR T cells. We continue with a summary of previously published CAR T-cell trials in GBM, and end by outlining the key therapeutic challenges associated with the use of CAR T cells in this disease."

"168. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2018 Oct 5;12:3343-3356. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S175113. eCollection 2018.","Characterization of clinical grade CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells produced using automated CliniMACS Prodigy system.","Background: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is highly effective for treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkins lymphoma with high rate complete responses. However, the broad clinical application of CAR T-cell therapy has been challenging, largely due to the lack of widespread ability to produce and high cost of CAR T-cell products using traditional methods of production. Automated cell processing in a closed system has emerged as a potential method to increase the feasibility of producing CAR T cells locally at  academic centers due to its minimal reliance on experienced labor, thereby making the process less expensive and more consistent than traditional methods of production. Method: In this study, we describe the successful production of clinical grade CD19 CAR T cells using the Miltenyi CliniMACS Prodigy Automated Cell Processor at University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in a rapid manner with a high frequent CD19 CAR expression. Results: The final CAR T-cell product is highly active, low in immune suppression, and absent in exhaustion. Full panel cytokine assays also showed elevated production of Th1 cytokines upon IL-2 stimulation when specifically killing CD19+ target cells. Conclusion: These results demonstrate the feasibility of producing CAR T cells locally in a university hospital setting using automated cell processor for future clinical applications."

"171. Cancer Discov. 2018 Oct;8(10):1219-1226. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-18-0442. Epub  2018 Aug 22.","Tumor Antigen Escape from CAR T-cell Therapy.","Emerging data from chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell trials in B-cell malignancies demonstrate that a common mechanism of resistance to this novel class of therapeutics is the emergence of tumors with loss or downregulation of the target antigen. Antigen loss or antigen-low escape is likely to emerge as an  even greater barrier to success in solid tumors, which manifest greater heterogeneity in target antigen expression. Potential approaches to overcome this challenge include engineering CAR T cells to achieve multispecificity and to respond to lower levels of target antigen and more efficient induction of natural antitumor immune responses as a result of CAR-induced inflammation. In this article, we review the evidence to date for antigen escape and downregulation and discuss approaches currently under study to overcome these obstacles.Significance: Antigen escape and downregulation have emerged as major issues impacting the durability of CAR T-cell therapy. Here, we explore their incidence and ways to overcome these obstacles in order to improve clinical outcomes. Cancer Discov; 8(10); 1219-26. ©2018 AACR."

"172. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Oct;67(10):1621-1634. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2221-1. Epub 2018 Aug 4.","Increased antitumor activities of glypican-3-specific chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells by coexpression of a soluble PD1-CH3 fusion protein.","Our recent clinical study demonstrated that glypican-3 (GPC3)-specific chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells are a promising treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the interaction of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and PD-L1-mediated T-cell inhibition is involved in immune evasion in a  wide range of solid tumors, including HCC. To overcome this problem, we introduced a fusion protein composed of a PD-1 extracellular domain and CH3 from  IgG4 into GPC3-specific CAR-T cells (GPC3-28Z) to block the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. GPC3-specific CAR-T cells carrying the PD-1-CH3 fusion protein (sPD1) specifically recognized and lysed GPC3-positive HCC cells. The proliferation capacity of GPC3-28Z-sPD1 T cells after weekly stimulation with target cells was  much higher than that of control GPC3-28Z T cells. Additionally, the coexpression of sPD1 could protect CAR-T cells from exhaustion when incubated with target cells, as phosphorylated AKT and Bcl-xL expression levels were higher in GPC3-28Z-sPD1 T cells than in GPC3-28Z cells. Importantly, in two HCC tumor xenograft models, GPC3-28Z-sPD1 T cells displayed a significantly higher tumor suppression capacity than GPC3-28Z T cells. In addition, an increased number of CD3+ T cells in the circulation and tumors and increased granzyme B levels and decreased Ki67 expression levels in the tumors were observed in the mice treated  with GPC3-28Z-sPD1 T cells. Together, these data indicated that GPC3-specific CAR-T cells carrying sPD1 show promise as a treatment for patients with HCC."

"173. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Oct;6(10):1274-1287. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0065. Epub 2018 Aug 7.","CD30-Redirected Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells Target CD30+ and CD30- Embryonal Carcinoma via Antigen-Dependent and Fas/FasL Interactions.","Tumor antigen heterogeneity limits success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies. Embryonal carcinomas (EC) and mixed testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) containing EC, which are the most aggressive TGCT subtypes, are useful for dissecting this issue as ECs express the CD30 antigen but also contain CD30-/dim  cells. We found that CD30-redirected CAR T cells (CD30.CAR T cells) exhibit antitumor activity in vitro against the human EC cell lines Tera-1, Tera-2, and NCCIT and putative EC stem cells identified by Hoechst dye staining. Cytolytic activity of CD30.CAR T cells was complemented by their sustained proliferation and proinflammatory cytokine production. CD30.CAR T cells also demonstrated antitumor activity in an in vivo xenograft NOD/SCID/γcnull (NSG) mouse model of metastatic EC. We observed that CD30.CAR T cells, while targeting CD30+ EC tumor  cells through the CAR (i.e., antigen-dependent targeting), also eliminated surrounding CD30- EC cells in an antigen-independent manner, via a cell-cell contact-dependent Fas/FasL interaction. In addition, ectopic Fas (CD95) expression in CD30+ Fas- EC was sufficient to improve CD30.CAR T-cell antitumor activity. Overall, these data suggest that CD30.CAR T cells might be useful as an immunotherapy for ECs. Additionally, Fas/FasL interaction between tumor cells and CAR T cells can be exploited to reduce tumor escape due to heterogeneous antigen  expression or to improve CAR T-cell antitumor activity. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(10); 1274-87. ©2018 AACR."

"174. Cancer Lett. 2018 Oct 1;433:131-139. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.06.035. Epub 2018 Jun 27.","Glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibition lowers PD-1 expression, promotes long-term  survival and memory generation in antigen-specific CAR-T cells.","Successful remission in hematological cancers by CAR-T cell immunotherapy has yet to be replicated in solid tumors like GBM. A significant impediment of CAR-T immunotherapy in solid tumors is poor exposure of T cells to tumor antigens resulting in suboptimal CAR-T cell activation, which ultimately fails to induce a robust anti-tumor immune response. Costimulatory moieties in advanced-generation  CARs, along with additional IL2 therapy has been shown to be insufficient to overcome this hurdle and have its cytotoxic limitations. GSK3 is constitutively active in naïve T cells and is transiently inactivated during T cell activation resulting in rapid T cell proliferation. Pharmacologic inhibition of GSK3 in GBM-specific CAR-T cells reduced FasL expression, increased T cell proliferation  and reduced exhaustion by lowering PD-1 levels resulting in the development of CAR-T effector memory phenotype. Treatment with GSK3-inhibited CAR-T cells resulted in 100% tumor elimination during the tumor-rechallenge experiment in GBM-bearing animals and increased accumulation of memory CAR-T cells in secondary lymphoid organs. These adjuvant-like effects of GSK3 inhibition on activated CAR-T cells may be a valuable adjunct to a successful implementation of CAR-T immunotherapy against GBM and other solid tumors."

"175. Cells. 2018 Oct 1;7(10). pii: E155. doi: 10.3390/cells7100155.","Allogeneic CAR-T Cells: More than Ease of Access?","Patient derived anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cells are a powerful tool in achieving a complete remission in a range of B-cell malignancies, most notably B-acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). However, there are limitations, including inability to manufacture CAR-T cells from the patients own T cells, disease progression and death prior to return of engineered cells. T cell dysfunction is  known to occur in cancer patients, and several groups have recently described differences in CAR-T cells generated from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients compared with those from a healthy donor. This is thought to contribute  to the low response rate in this disease group. Healthy donor, gene-edited CAR-T  cells which do not require human leucocyte antigen (HLA) matching have the potential to provide an off the shelf product, overcoming the manufacturing difficulties of producing CAR-T cells for each individual patient. They may also  provide a more functional, potent product for malignancies such as CLL, where T cell dysfunction is common and frequently cannot be fully reversed during the manufacturing process. Here we review the potential benefits and obstacles for healthy donor, allogeneic CAR-T cells."

"176. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Oct;13(5):396-406. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0470-x.","CAR-T Cell Therapy for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Transforming the Treatment of Relapsed and Refractory Disease.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Genetically engineered T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) targeting specific antigens present on acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) blasts have generated promising results in children and adults with relapsed and refractory disease. We review the current evidence for CAR-T cell therapy in ALL, associated toxicities, and efforts to improve durable response to therapy. RECENT FINDINGS: CD19-directed CAR-T cells have recently been approved by the FDA for use in children and young adults with ALL and in adults with diffuse large B  cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in the relapsed/refractory setting. CD22-directed CAR-T cells have shown efficacy against leukemia as well in a recent clinical trial, representing the first alternative CAR target to approach comparable efficacy to  CD19 CAR-T cells. Standardization of toxicity grading and management, strategies  to combat significant relapse rates after CAR-T therapy, and applicability of CAR-T cells to treat central nervous system (CNS) disease remain challenges in the field and represent priorities for continued research. CAR-T cells are a feasible, effective, and rapidly evolving therapy for patients with relapsed and  refractory B cell malignancies."

"177. Curr Protoc Cytom. 2018 Oct;86(1):e44. doi: 10.1002/cpcy.44. Epub 2018 Sep 13.","Flow Cytometric Monitoring for Residual Disease in B Lymphoblastic Leukemia Post  T Cell Engaging Targeted Therapies.","The use of targeted therapy is growing in the setting of hematopoietic neoplasms. Flow cytometry is a cornerstone of residual disease monitoring post therapy in this group of malignancies. Often, there is overlap between antigens targeted by  immunotherapies and gating reagents utilized for population identification by flow cytometry. Such overlap can render a previously excellent gating reagent inadequate for disease detection. Recently, several anti-CD19 T cell-engaging immunotherapeutic agents and an anti-CD22 immunotoxin have been FDA approved for  use in B lymphoblastic leukemia (B-LL), with an anti-CD22 T cell-engaging agent in development. In the setting of such targeted therapies, CD19 and CD22 expression may be altered, compromising the use of these reagents for identification of abnormal blasts. We describe herein a strategy for flow cytometric monitoring for residual disease in patients with B-LL post T cell-engaging anti-CD19 and anti-CD22 therapies."

"178. Cytotherapy. 2018 Oct;20(10):1259-1266. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.07.005. Epub 2018 Oct 9.","Programmed cell death protein 1 activation preferentially inhibits CD28.CAR-T cells.","Targeted adoptive immunotherapy with engineered T cells is a promising treatment  for refractory hematologic malignancies. However, many patients achieving early complete remissions ultimately relapse. Immunosuppressive ligands are expressed on tumor and supportive cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME). When activated, T cells express associated checkpoint receptors. Binding of co-inhibitory ligands and receptors may directly contribute to T-cell functional  exhaustion. It is not known whether all T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are subject to checkpoint-mediated regulation. It is also unknown whether distinct CAR signaling moieties modulate T-cell responsiveness to these inhibitory pathways. We have, therefore, directly compared functional co-inhibition in engineered T cells identically targeted to the tumor-associated antigen CD123, but distinct in their mode of T-cell activation: via the endogenous T-cell receptor (ENG), or downstream of CD28 or 41BB-containing CARs. In all cases, we have observed antigen-independent T-cell activation associated with upregulation of the co-inhibitory receptors programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1, CD279), Tim-3 and Lag-3. Notably, CD28.CAR T cells were uniquely susceptible to PD-1/PD-L1 mediated checkpoint inhibition. Together, our data indicate that PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint blocking agents may be considered clinically when CD28.CAR T cells do not perform optimally in human trials."

"179. Exp Hematol. 2018 Oct;66:5-16. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2018.07.002. Epub 2018 Jul 20.","Open access? Widening access to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy for ALL.","T cells that are genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CD19 show great promise for the treatment of relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The first U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of a cellular cancer therapy in 2017, Novartiss CD19-targeting CAR T-cell product Kymriah™ within the context of relapsed/refractory pediatric ALL, followed rapidly by approval of Kites Yescarta™ and, more recently, Kymriah™ for diffuse large B-cell indications in adults, highlights the pace of progress made in this field. In this review, we will consider the latest evidence from CAR T-cell therapy for B-lineage ALL. We discuss the barriers to CAR T-cell therapy for ALL patients and give a perspective on the strategy we have taken to date to widen access to CAR T-cell therapy for UK pediatric patients with high-risk ALL."

"180. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Oct 1;9:1118. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.01118. eCollection 2018.","Disruption of PD-1 Enhanced the Anti-tumor Activity of Chimeric Antigen Receptor  T Cells Against Hepatocellular Carcinoma.","Cancer immunotherapy has made unprecedented breakthrough in the fields of chimeric antigen receptor-redirected T (CAR T) cell therapy and immune modulation. Combination of CAR modification and the disruption of endogenous inhibitory immune checkpoints on T cells represent a promising immunotherapeutic  modality for cancer treatment. However, the potential for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been explored. In this study, the gene expressing the programmed death 1 receptor (PD-1) on the Glypican-3 (GPC3)-targeted second-generation CAR T cells employing CD28 as the co-stimulatory domain was disrupted using the CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing system. It was found that, in vitro, the CAR T cells with the deficient PD-1 showed the stronger CAR-dependent anti-tumor activity against native programmed death 1 ligand 1-expressing HCC cell PLC/PRF/5 compared with the wild-type CAR T cells, and meanwhile, the CD4 and CD8 subsets, and activation status of CAR T cells were stable with the disruption of endogenous PD-1. Additionally, the disruption of PD-1 could protect the GPC3-CAR T cells from exhaustion when combating with native PD-L1-expressing HCC, as the levels of Akt phosphorylation and anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL expression in PD-1 deficient GPC3-CAR T cells were  significantly higher than those in wild-type GPC3-CAR T cells after coculturing with PLC/PRF/5. Furthermore, the in vivo anti-tumor activity of the CAR T cells with the deficient PD-1 was investigated using the subcutaneous xenograft tumor model established by the injection of PLC/PRF/5 into NOD-scid-IL-2Rγ-/- (NSG) mice. The results indicated that the disruption of PD-1 enhanced the in vivo anti-tumor activity of CAR T cells against HCC, improved the persistence and infiltration of CAR T cells in the NSG mice bearing the tumor, and strengthened the inhibition of tumor-related genes expression in the xenograft tumors caused by the GPC3-CAR T cells. This study indicates the enhanced anti-tumor efficacy of PD-1-deficient CAR T cells against HCC and suggests the potential of precision gene editing on the immune checkpoints to enhance the CAR T cell therapies against HCC."

"181. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 Oct;29(10):1083-1097. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.251. Epub 2018 Aug 29.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells: Extending Translation from Liquid to Solid Tumors.","Successful translation of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells designed to target and eradicate CD19+ lymphomas has emboldened scientists and physicians worldwide to explore the possibility of applying CAR T-cell technology to other tumor entities, including solid tumors. Next-generation strategies such as fourth-generation CARs (CAR T cells redirected for universal cytokine killing, also known as TRUCKs) designed to deliver immunomodulatory cytokines to the tumor microenvironment, dual CAR designs to improve tumor control, inclusion of suicide genes as safety switches, and precision genome editing are currently being investigated. One major ongoing goal is to determine how best to generate CAR T cells that modulate the tumor microenvironment, overcome tumor survival mechanisms, and thus allow broader applicability as universal allogeneic T-cell therapeutics. Development of state-of-the-art and beyond viral vector systems to  deliver designer CARs coupled with targeted genome editing is expected to generate more effective off-the-shelf CAR T cells with activity against a greater number of cancer types and importantly solid tumors."

"182. J Immunol. 2018 Oct 1;201(7):2165-2175. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1800230. Epub 2018  Aug 27.","miR-143 Regulates Memory T Cell Differentiation by Reprogramming T Cell Metabolism.","MicroRNAs are an important regulator for T cell immune response. In this study, we aimed to identify microRNAs with the potential to regulate T cell differentiation. The influence of miR-143 on differentiation and function of CD8+ T cells from healthy donors were detected, and it was found that miR-143 overexpression could significantly increase the differentiation of central memory T (Tcm) CD8+ cells, decrease cell apoptosis, and increase proinflammatory cytokine secretion. Furthermore, the specific killing of HER2-CAR T cells against esophageal cancer cell line TE-7 was enhanced by miR-143 overexpression. Glucose  transporter 1 (Glut-1) was identified as the critical target gene of miR-143 in the role of T cell regulation. By inhibition Glut-1, miR-143 inhibited glucose uptake and glycolysis in T cell to regulated T cell differentiation. Tcm cell populations were also suppressed in parallel with the downregulation of miR-143 in tumor tissues from 13 patients with esophagus cancer. IDO and its metabolite kynurenine in the tumor microenvironment were screened as an upstream regulator of miR-143. IDO small interfering RNA significantly increased the expression of miR-143 and Tcm cell population. In conclusion, our results show that miR-143 enhanced antitumor effects of T cell by promoting memory T cell differentiation and metabolism reprogramming through Glut-1. Our findings will encourage the development of new strategies targeting miR-143 in both cancer cells and T cells."

"183. J Immunol. 2018 Oct 1;201(7):2141-2153. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1800429. Epub 2018  Aug 15.","IL-21 Selectively Protects CD62L+ NKT Cells and Enhances Their Effector Functions for Adoptive Immunotherapy.","T cells expressing CD19-specific chimeric Ag receptors (CARs) produce high remission rates in B cell lymphoma, but frequent disease recurrence and challenges in generating sufficient numbers of autologous CAR T cells necessitate the development of alternative therapeutic effectors. Vα24-invariant NKTs have intrinsic antitumor properties and are not alloreactive, allowing for off-the-shelf use of CAR-NKTs from healthy donors. We recently reported that CD62L+ NKTs persist longer and have more potent antilymphoma activity than CD62L- cells. However, the conditions governing preservation of CD62L+ cells during NKT  cell expansion remain largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that IL-21 preserves this crucial central memory-like NKT subset and enhances its antitumor  effector functionality. We found that following antigenic stimulation with α-galactosylceramide, CD62L+ NKTs both expressed IL-21R and secreted IL-21, each  at significantly higher levels than CD62L- cells. Although IL-21 alone failed to  expand stimulated NKTs, combined IL-2/IL-21 treatment produced more NKTs and increased the frequency of CD62L+ cells versus IL-2 alone. Gene expression analysis comparing CD62L+ and CD62L- cells treated with IL-2 alone or IL-2/IL-21  revealed that the latter condition downregulated the proapoptotic protein BIM selectively in CD62L+ NKTs, protecting them from activation-induced cell death. Moreover, IL-2/IL-21-expanded NKTs upregulated granzyme B expression and produced more TH1 cytokines, leading to enhanced in vitro cytotoxicity of nontransduced and anti-CD19-CAR-transduced NKTs against CD1d+ and CD19+ lymphoma cells, respectively. Further, IL-2/IL-21-expanded CAR-NKTs dramatically increased the survival of lymphoma-bearing NSG mice compared with IL-2-expanded CAR-NKTs. These findings have immediate translational implications for the development of NKT cell-based immunotherapies targeting lymphoma and other malignancies."

"184. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2018 Oct 1;77(10):877-882. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nly064.","Neuropathology of a Case With Fatal CAR T-Cell-Associated Cerebral Edema.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are a new and powerful class of cancer immunotherapeutics that have shown potential for the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies. The tremendous promise of this approach is tempered by safety concerns, including potentially fatal neurotoxicity, sometimes but not universally associated with cytokine release syndrome. We describe the postmortem examination of a brain from a 21-year-old patient with relapsed pre-B cell acute  lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who died from fulminant cerebral edema following CAR T-cell infusion. We found a range of changes that included activation of microglia, expansion of perivascular spaces by proteinaceous exudate, and clasmatodendrosis-a beading of glial fibrillary acidic protein consistent with astrocyte injury. Notably, within the brain parenchyma, we identified only infrequent T cells and did not identify ALL cells or CAR T cells. The overall findings are nonspecific but raise the possibility of astrocyte and blood-brain barrier dysfunction as a potential etiology of fatal CAR T-cell neurotoxicity in  this patient."

"185. J Nucl Med. 2018 Oct;59(10):1531-1537. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.117.206714. Epub 2018  May 4.","PET of Adoptively Transferred Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells with 89Zr-Oxine.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is a promising clinical approach for reducing tumor progression and prolonging patient survival. However, improvements in both the safety and the potency of CAR T cell therapy demand quantitative imaging techniques to determine the distribution of cells after adoptive transfer. The purpose of this study was to optimize 89Zr-oxine labeling  of CAR T cells and evaluate PET as a platform for imaging adoptively transferred  CAR T cells. Methods: CAR T cells were labeled with 0-1.4 MBq of 89Zr-oxine per 106 cells and assessed for radioactivity retention, viability, and functionality. In vivo trafficking of 89Zr-oxine-labeled CAR T cells was evaluated in 2 murine xenograft tumor models: glioblastoma brain tumors with intracranially delivered IL13Rα2-targeted CAR T cells, and subcutaneous prostate tumors with intravenously delivered prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA)-targeted CAR T cells. Results: CAR T  cells were efficiently labeled (75%) and retained more than 60% of the 89Zr over  6 d. In vitro cytokine production, migration, and tumor cytotoxicity, as well as  in vivo antitumor activity, were not significantly reduced when labeled with 70 kBq/106 cells. IL13Rα2-CAR T cells delivered intraventricularly were detectable by PET for at least 6 d throughout the central nervous system and within intracranial tumors. When intravenously administered, PSCA-CAR T cells also showed tumor tropism, with a 9-fold greater tumor-to-muscle ratio than for CAR-negative T cells. Conclusion: 89Zr-oxine can be used for labeling and imaging CAR T cells while maintaining cell viability and function. On the basis of these  studies, we conclude that 89Zr-oxine is a clinically translatable platform for real-time assessment of cell therapies."

"189. Nat Rev Immunol. 2018 Oct;18(10):605-616. doi: 10.1038/s41577-018-0042-2.","CAR T cells for infection, autoimmunity and allotransplantation.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have shown remarkable ability to re-direct T cells to target CD19-expressing tumours, resulting in remission rates of up to 90% in individuals with paediatric acute lymphoblastic lymphoma. Lessons learned  from these clinical trials of adoptive T cell therapy for cancer, as well as investments made in manufacturing T cells at commercial scale, have inspired researchers to develop CARs for additional applications. Here, we explore the challenges and opportunities of using this technology to target infectious diseases such as with HIV and undesired immune responses such as autoimmunity and transplant rejection. Despite substantial obstacles, the potential of CAR T cells to enable cures for a wide array of disease settings could be transformational for the medical field."

"190. Protein Cell. 2018 Oct;9(10):867-878. doi: 10.1007/s13238-017-0384-8. Epub 2017 Mar 10.","Effective and persistent antitumor activity of HER2-directed CAR-T cells against  gastric cancer cells in vitro and xenotransplanted tumors in vivo.","Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) proteins are overexpressed in a high proportion of gastric cancer (GC) cases and affect the maintenance of cancer stem cell (CSC) subpopulations, which are used as targets for the clinical treatment of patients with HER2-positive GC. Despite improvements in survival, numerous HER2-positive patients fail treatment with trastuzumab, highlighting the need for more effective therapies. In this study, we generated a novel type of genetically modified human T cells, expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), and targeting the GC cell antigen HER2, which harbors the CD137 and CD3ζ moieties. Our findings show that the expanded CAR-T cells, expressing an increased central memory phenotype, were activated by the specific recognition of HER2 antigens in an MHC-independent manner, and effectively killed patient-derived HER2-positive GC cells. In HER2-positive xenograft tumors, CAR-T  cells exhibited considerably enhanced tumor inhibition ability, long-term survival, and homing to targets, compared with those of non-transduced T cells. The sphere-forming ability and in vivo tumorigenicity of patient-derived gastric  cancer stem-like cells, expressing HER2 and the CD44 protein, were also inhibited. Our results support the future development and clinical application of this adoptive immunotherapy in patients with HER2-positive advanced GC."

"191. BMC Cancer. 2018 Sep 26;18(1):929. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4817-4.","The efficacy and safety of anti-CD19/CD20 chimeric antigen receptor- T cells immunotherapy in relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies:a meta-analysis.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cells immunotherapy is rapidly developed in treating cancers, especially relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. METHODS: To assess the efficacy and safety of CAR T therapy, we analyzed clinical trials from PUBMED and EMBASE. RESULTS: Results showed that the pooled response rate, 6-months and 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate were 67%, 65.62% and 44.18%, respectively. We observed that received lymphodepletion (72% vs 44%, P = 0.0405) and high peak  serum IL-2 level (85% vs 31%, P = 0.04) were positively associated with patients response to CAR T cells. Similarly, costimulatory domains (CD28 vs CD137) in second generation CAR T was positively associated with PFS (52.69% vs 33.39%, P = 0.0489). The pooled risks of all grade adverse effects (AEs) and grade ≥ 3 AEs were 71% and 43%. Most common grade ≥ 3 AEs were fatigue (18%), night sweats  (14%), hypotension (12%), injection site reaction (12%), leukopenia (10%), anemia (9%). CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, CAR T therapy has promising outcomes with tolerable AEs in relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. Further modifications of CAR structure and optimal therapy strategy in continued clinical trials are needed to obtain significant improvements."

"192. Biomedicines. 2018 Sep 25;6(4). pii: E94. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines6040094.","Recombinant Viruses for Cancer Therapy.","Recombinant viruses are novel therapeutic agents that can be utilized for treatment of various diseases, including cancers. Recombinant viruses can be engineered to express foreign transgenes and have a broad tropism allowing gene expression in a wide range of host cells. They can be selected or designed for specific therapeutic goals; for example, recombinant viruses could be used to stimulate host immune response against tumor-specific antigens and therefore overcome the ability of the tumor to evade the hosts immune surveillance. Alternatively, recombinant viruses could express immunomodulatory genes which stimulate an anti-cancer immune response. Oncolytic viruses can replicate specifically in tumor cells and induce toxic effects leading to cell lysis and apoptosis. However, each of these approaches face certain difficulties that must  be resolved to achieve maximum therapeutic efficacy. In this review we discuss actively developing approaches for cancer therapy based on recombinant viruses, problems that need to be overcome, and possible prospects for further development of recombinant virus based therapy."

"193. Front Immunol. 2018 Sep 25;9:2166. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02166. eCollection 2018.","The Potential of CAR T Cell Therapy in Pancreatic Cancer.","Pancreatic cancer has a dismal prognosis and effective treatment options are limited. It is projected to be the second most common cause of cancer related mortality in the United States by 2030 and there is urgent unmet need for novel systemic treatment options. Immunotherapy with antibodies targeting PD-1, PD-L1,  CTLA-4 has not shown clinical activity in unselected pancreatic cancer, emphasizing the need for combination immunotherapy approaches or other therapeutic strategies. As such, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy represents an emerging therapeutic option for pancreatic cancer. This modality utilizes genetically engineered T cells that are redirected to specific cancer-associated antigens to elicit potent cytotoxic activity. This review summarizes the available preclinical data and highlights early phase clinical trials using CAR T cell approaches in pancreatic cancer, a disease state that is  gaining attention as a conduit for cell therapy. Future directions in application of CAR T cell therapy are also considered including its ability to be directed against novel epitopes and combined with other therapeutic regimens."

"194. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Sep 24;11(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0653-x.","Cytokine release syndrome: grading, modeling, and new therapy.","Genetically modified T cells that express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) are opening a new frontier in cancer immunotherapy. CAR T cells currently are in clinical trials for many cancer types. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicities (CAR-related encephalopathy syndrome, CRES) are major adverse events limiting wide deployment of the CAR T cell treatment. Major efforts are ongoing to characterize the pathogenesis and etiology of CRS and CRES. Mouse models have been established to facilitate the study of pathogenesis of the major toxicities of CAR T cells. Myeloid cells including macrophages and monocytes, not the CAR T cells, were found to be the major cells mediating CRS and CRES by releasing IL-1 and IL-6 among other cytokines. Blocking IL-1 or depletion of monocytes abolished both CRS and CRES, whereas IL-6 blocker can ameliorate CRS but not CRES. Therefore, both IL-1 and IL-6 are major cytokines for CRS, though IL-1 is responsible for CRES. It was also demonstrated in the mouse models that blocking CRS does not interfere with the CAR T cell antitumor functions. We summarized new developments in the grading, modeling, and possible new therapeutic approaches for CRS and CRES in this review."

"195. Front Immunol. 2018 Sep 21;9:2103. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02103. eCollection 2018.","Oncolytic Viruses Partner With T-Cell Therapy for Solid Tumor Treatment.","Adoptive T-cell immunotherapies, including chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cells (CAR-T cells), have revolutionized cancer treatment, especially for hematologic malignancies. Clinical success of CAR-T cell monotherapy in solid tumors however, has been only modest. Oncolytic viruses provide direct cancer cell lysis, stimulate systemic immune responses, and have the capacity to provide therapeutic transgenes. Oncolytic virotherapy has shown great promise in many preclinical solid tumor models and the first oncolytic virus has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of advanced melanoma. As monotherapies for solid tumors, oncolytic virotherapy provides only moderate anti-tumor effects. However, due to their complementary modes of action, oncolytic virus and T-cell therapies  can be combined to overcome the inherent limitations of each agent. This review focuses on the aspects of oncolytic viruses that enable them to synergize with adoptive T-cell immunotherapies to enhance anti-tumor effects for solid tumors."

"196. JCI Insight. 2018 Sep 20;3(18). pii: 121322. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.121322. eCollection 2018 Sep 20.","4-1BB enhancement of CAR T function requires NF-κB and TRAFs.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have an antigen-binding domain fused to transmembrane, costimulatory, and CD3ζ domains. Two CARs with regulatory approval include a CD28 or 4-1BB costimulatory domain. While both CARs achieve similar clinical outcomes, biologic differences have become apparent but not completely understood. Therefore, in this study we aimed to identify mechanistic differences between 4-1BB and CD28 costimulation that contribute to the biologic differences  between the 2 CARs and could be exploited to enhance CAR T cell function. Using CD19-targeted CAR T cells with 4-1BB we determined that enhancement of T cell function is driven by NF-κB. Comparison to CAR T cells with CD28 also revealed that 4-1BB is associated with more antiapoptotic proteins and dependence on persistence for B cell killing. While TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) has been presupposed to be required for 4-1BB costimulation in CAR T cells, we determined that TRAF1 and TRAF3 are also critical. We observed that TRAFs impacted CAR T viability and proliferation, as well as cytotoxicity and/or cytokines, in part by regulating NF-κB. Our study demonstrates how 4-1BB costimulation in CAR T cells impacts antitumor eradication and clinical outcomes  and has implications for enhanced CAR design."

"197. Cancers (Basel). 2018 Sep 18;10(9). pii: E339. doi: 10.3390/cancers10090339.","Current Immunotherapeutic Approaches in T Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas.","T cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (T-NHL) is a rare and heterogeneous group of neoplasms of the lymphoid system. With the exception of a few relatively indolent entities, T-NHL is typically aggressive, treatment resistant, and associated with poor prognosis. Relatively few options with proven clinical benefit are available for patients with relapsed or refractory disease. Immunotherapy has emerged as a  promising treatment for the management of patients with hematological malignancies. The identification of tumor antigens has provided a large number of potential targets. Therefore, several monoclonal antibodies (alemtuzumab, SGN-30, brentuximab vedotin, and mogamulizumab), directed against tumor antigens, have been investigated in different subtypes of T-NHL. In addition to targeting antigens involved in cancer cell physiology, antibodies can stimulate immune effector functions or counteract immunosuppressive mechanisms. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells directed against CD30 and immune checkpoint inhibitors are currently being investigated in clinical trials. In this review, we summarize the currently available clinical evidence for immunotherapy in T-NHL, focusing on the results of clinical trials using first generation monoclonal antibodies, new immunotherapeutic agents, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and CAR-T cell therapies."

"198. Chronic Dis Transl Med. 2018 Sep 18;4(4):225-243. doi: 10.1016/j.cdtm.2018.08.002. eCollection 2018 Dec.","Chimeric antigen receptor modified T-cells for cancer treatment.","T cells engineered with the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) are rapidly emerging  as an important immunotherapy for hematologic malignancies. The anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)19 CAR-T cell therapy has been remarkably successful against  refractory/relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and a complete remission  rate as high as 90% was observed, in both children and adults. Although the achievement of clinical efficacy using CAR-T cell therapy for solid tumors has encountered several obstacles that were associated with the multiple mechanisms contributing to an immunosuppressive microenvironment, investigators are exploring more optimized approaches to improve the efficiency of CAR-T in solid tumors. In addition, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity following  CAR-T cell therapy can be severe or even fatal; therefore, the management of these toxicities is significant. Herein, we briefly review the structure of CAR-T and some novel CAR designs, the clinical application of CAR-T cell therapies, as  well as the assessment and management of toxicities."

"199. Blood. 2018 Sep 13;132(11):1134-1145. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-08-802926. Epub 2018 Jul 25.","Antitumor activity of CAR-T cells targeting the intracellular oncoprotein WT1 can be enhanced by vaccination.","The recent success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy for treatment of hematologic malignancies supports further development of treatments  for both liquid and solid tumors. However, expansion of CAR-T cell therapy is limited by the availability of surface antigens specific for the tumor while sparing normal cells. There is a rich diversity of tumor antigens from intracellularly expressed proteins that current and conventional CAR-T cells are  unable to target. Furthermore, adoptively transferred T cells often suffer from exhaustion and insufficient expansion, in part, because of the immunosuppressive  mechanisms operating in tumor-bearing hosts. Therefore, it is necessary to develop means to further activate and expand those CAR-T cells in vivo. The Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) is an intracellular oncogenic transcription factor that is an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy because of its overexpression in a wide range of leukemias and solid tumors, and a low level of expression in normal adult tissues. In the present study, we developed CAR-T cells consisting of a single chain variable fragment (scFv) specific to the WT1235-243/HLA-A*2402 complex. The therapeutic efficacy of our CAR-T cells was demonstrated in a xenograft model, which was further enhanced by vaccination with dendritic cells (DCs) loaded with the corresponding antigen. This enhanced efficacy was mediated, at least partly, by the expansion and activation of CAR-T cells. CAR-T cells shown in the present study not only demonstrate the potential to expand the range of targets available to CAR-T cells, but also provide a proof of concept that efficacy of CAR-T cells targeting peptide/major histocompatibility complex can be boosted by vaccination."

"200. Cancers (Basel). 2018 Sep 11;10(9). pii: E323. doi: 10.3390/cancers10090323.","CAR-T Cells Based on Novel BCMA Monoclonal Antibody Block Multiple Myeloma Cell Growth.","The cell-surface protein B cell maturation antigen (BCMA, CD269) has emerged as a promising target for CAR-T cell therapy for multiple myeloma. In order to create  a novel BCMA CAR, we generated a new BCMA monoclonal antibody, clone 4C8A. This antibody exhibited strong and selective binding to human BCMA. BCMA CAR-T cells containing the 4C8A scFv were readily detected with recombinant BCMA protein by flow cytometry. The cells were cytolytic for RPMI8226, H929, and MM1S multiple myeloma cells and secreted high levels of IFN-γ in vitro. BCMA-dependent cytotoxicity and IFN-γ secretion were also observed in response to CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovary)-BCMA cells but not to parental CHO cells. In a mouse subcutaneous  tumor model, BCMA CAR-T cells significantly blocked RPMI8226 tumor formation. When BCMA CAR-T cells were given to mice with established RPMI8226 tumors, the tumors experienced significant shrinkage due to CAR-T cell activity and tumor cell apoptosis. The same effect was observed with 3 humanized BCMA-CAR-T cells in vivo. These data indicate that novel CAR-T cells utilizing the BCMA 4C8A scFv are effective against multiple myeloma and warrant future clinical development."

"201. Med Oncol. 2018 Sep 11;35(11):144. doi: 10.1007/s12032-018-1204-6.","Effect of transplant status in CD19-targeted CAR T-cell therapy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown promise for relapsed/refractory malignancies. Many patients have undergone prior hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), yet effects of transplant status on CAR T-cell therapy efficacy and safety have not been reported. The purpose of the study is to systematically evaluate the likelihood of achieving optimum response, severe cytokine release syndrome (sCRS), and neurotoxicity in the context of CAR  T-cell therapy for HSCT-naïve patients versus those with prior HSCT. Trials were  identified in ClinicalTrials.gov, Cochrane Library, and PubMed, and through reference pearl growing. Included studies used CD19-directed CAR T-cells for relapsed/refractory B-lineage Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and B cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, enrolled both HSCT-naïve and prior-HSCT patients, and denoted transplant status with outcomes. Six studies were included for optimum response, five for sCRS incidence, and four for neurotoxicity incidence. The pooled odds ratio for optimum response was 1.57 favoring HSCT-naïve patients (95% CI 0.54-4.61), whereas the pooled odds ratios for sCRS and neurotoxicity were 1.41 (95% CI 0.51-3.94) and 1.37 (95% CI 0.28-6.77), respectively, toward HSCT-naïve patients. Odds ratios were non-statistically significant. Overall risk of bias was moderate. While pooled estimates showed an advantage among HSCT-naïve patients for achieving optimum response and increased likelihood for sCRS and neurotoxicity, findings were not statistically significant. Any differences in efficacy and safety of CAR T-cell therapy cannot be verifiably attributed to transplant status, and additional controlled trials with increased sample sizes are needed to determine whether suggestive patterns favoring HSCT-naïve patients  are validated."

"202. Front Oncol. 2018 Sep 10;8:351. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00351. eCollection 2018.","Cancer Immunotherapy in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.","Remarkable progress has been made in the field of cancer immunotherapy in the past few years. Immunotherapy has become a standard treatment option for patients with various cancers, including melanoma, lymphoma, and carcinomas of the lungs,  kidneys, bladder, and head and neck. Promising immunotherapy approaches, such as  chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy and therapeutic blockade of immune checkpoints, in particular cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 pathway (PD-1/PD-L1), have boosted the development of new therapeutic regimens for patients with cancer. Immunotherapeutic strategies for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) include monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody (rituximab), monoclonal anti-PD-1 antibodies (nivolumab and pembrolizumab), monoclonal anti-PD-L1 antibodies (avelumab, durvalumab, and atezolizumab) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy. In this review, we outline the latest highlights and progress in using immunotherapy to treat patients with DLBCL, with a focus on the therapeutic blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 and CAR T cell therapy in DLBCL. We also discuss current clinical trials of PD-1/PD-L1 and CAR T cell therapy and review the challenges and opportunities of using immunotherapy for the treatment of DLBCL."

"203. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Sep 6;7(12):e1511506. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1511506. eCollection 2018.","Trial watch: Peptide-based vaccines in anticancer therapy.","Peptide-based anticancer vaccination aims at stimulating an immune response against one or multiple tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) following immunization with purified, recombinant or synthetically engineered epitopes. Despite high expectations, the peptide-based vaccines that have been explored in the clinic so far had limited therapeutic activity, largely due to cancer cell-intrinsic alterations that minimize antigenicity and/or changes in the tumor microenvironment that foster immunosuppression. Several strategies have been developed to overcome such limitations, including the use of immunostimulatory adjuvants, the co-treatment with cytotoxic anticancer therapies that enable the coordinated release of damage-associated molecular patterns, and the concomitant  blockade of immune checkpoints. Personalized peptide-based vaccines are also being explored for therapeutic activity in the clinic. Here, we review recent preclinical and clinical progress in the use of peptide-based vaccines as anticancer therapeutics.Abbreviations: CMP: carbohydrate-mimetic peptide; CMV: cytomegalovirus; DC: dendritic cell; FDA: Food and Drug Administration; HPV: human papillomavirus; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MHP: melanoma helper vaccine; NSCLC: non-small cell lung carcinoma; ODD: orphan drug designation; PPV: personalized peptide vaccination; SLP: synthetic long peptide; TAA: tumor-associated antigen; TNA: tumor neoantigen."

"204. Cell Death Dis. 2018 Sep 4;9(9):897. doi: 10.1038/s41419-018-0918-x.","The biological basis and clinical symptoms of CAR-T therapy-associated toxicites.","Currently, immunotherapy is attracting a lot of attention and may potentially become a leading approach in the treatment of cancer. One emerging therapeutic, the chimeric-antigen receptor T-cell adoptive immunotherapy (CAR-T) is showing remarkable efficacy in the treatment of several B-cell malignancies. The popularity of CAR-T has been founded on two CAR T-cell products recently approved by FDA (during 2017) in the treatment of relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and B-cell lymphoma. However, their toxicities observed in clinical trials were extremely significant and in some cases even fatal with no approved algorithms for toxicity prediction being available to date. A deeper understanding of the biological basis of such complications is the key to prompt  and comprehensive clinical management. Here we review the wide spectrum of effects associated with CAR T cell therapy with a major focus on the pathogenesis of cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity as the most common, potentially life-threatening effects of this treatment. We discuss the basis of clinical management and the existing models that predict the severity of toxicity, as well as the key factors that modulate this event. Finally, we will summarize the literature detailing universal allogenic CAR T-cells and their toxicity profile."

"205. PLoS Biol. 2018 Sep 4;16(9):e2005046. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2005046. eCollection 2018 Sep.","The human lymph node microenvironment unilaterally regulates T-cell activation and differentiation.","The microenvironment of lymphoid organs can aid healthy immune function through provision of both structural and molecular support. In mice, fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) create an essential T-cell support structure within lymph  nodes, while human FRCs are largely unstudied. Here, we show that FRCs create a regulatory checkpoint in human peripheral T-cell activation through 4 mechanisms  simultaneously utilised. Human tonsil and lymph node-derived FRCs constrained the proliferation of both naïve and pre-activated T cells, skewing their differentiation away from a central memory T-cell phenotype. FRCs acted unilaterally without requiring T-cell feedback, imposing suppression via indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase, adenosine 2A Receptor, prostaglandin E2, and transforming growth factor beta receptor (TGFβR). Each mechanistic pathway was druggable, and a cocktail of inhibitors, targeting all 4 mechanisms, entirely reversed the suppressive effect of FRCs. T cells were not permanently anergised by FRCs, and studies using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells showed that immunotherapeutic T cells retained effector functions in the presence of FRCs. Since mice were not suitable as a proof-of-concept model, we instead developed a  novel human tissue-based in situ assay. Human T cells stimulated using standard methods within fresh tonsil slices did not proliferate except in the presence of  inhibitors described above. Collectively, we define a 4-part molecular mechanism  by which FRCs regulate the T-cell response to strongly activating events in secondary lymphoid organs while permitting activated and CAR T cells to utilise effector functions. Our results define 4 feasible strategies, used alone or in combinations, to boost primary T-cell responses to infection or cancer by pharmacologically targeting FRCs."

"206. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2018 Sep 3;14:1573-1584. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S146309. eCollection 2018.","The potential of CAR T therapy for relapsed or refractory pediatric and young adult B-cell ALL.","Recent advancements in immunooncology have resulted in the generation of novel therapies such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, which have revolutionized the treatment of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The journey of tisagenlecleucel (formerly CTL019) from early preclinical success to the US Food and Drug Administration approval is summarized in this review. Strategies that are currently being investigated to improve the efficacy and safety profile of CAR T-cells are also explored, as well as the factors contributing to the present state of patient access to CAR T therapy."

"207. Adv Cell Gene Ther. 2018 Sep;1(2). pii: e11. doi: 10.1002/acg2.11. Epub 2018 Jul  10.","CAR T cells targeting αvβ3 integrin are effective against advanced cancer in preclinical models.","Objective: Integrins are heterodimeric receptors that convey cell-to-cell and cell-to-matrix interactions. Integrin αvβ3 is expressed in several tumour entities including melanoma, glioblastoma, breast, pancreatic and prostate cancer, where it promotes tumour cell survival and metastasis. Here, we generated αvβ3-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells and analysed their antitumour function in pre-clinical models in vitro and in vivo. Methods: αvβ3-CARs comprising a super-humanised hLM609 targeting domain with either high or low affinity (hLM609v7, K d = 3 nM vs. hLM609v11, K d = 160 nM) and equipped with either a long or a short IgG4-Fc extracellular spacer (229 vs.  12 amino acids) were expressed in CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells through lentiviral transduction. Results: αvβ3-CAR T-cells eliminated αvβ3-positive tumour cells rapidly and specifically, produced IFN-γ and IL-2 (CD4+ > CD8+) and exhibited productive proliferation. In vitro, we observed the strongest reactivity with the higher-affinity hLM609v7 αvβ3-CAR in the short spacer configuration, consistent with the tumour membrane-distal localization of the hLM609 epitope. In a murine xenograft model of metastatic A-375 melanoma, the strongest antitumour effect was mediated by the lower-affinity hLM609v11 αvβ3-CAR. Notably, a single administration of hLM609v11 αvβ3-CAR T-cells was able to induce complete elimination of melanoma lesions, leading to long-term tumour-free survival. Conclusions: These data establish αvβ3 integrin as a novel target for CAR T-cell  immunotherapy, and affirm our previous notion that binding domain affinity and spacer length can be calibrated to augment CAR reactivity. Clinical implications: αvβ3-CAR T-cells have therapeutic potential in several prevalent solid tumours, including melanoma and triple-negative breast cancer."

"208. Ann Acad Med Singapore. 2018 Sep;47(9):381-387.","Cancer Immunotherapy - The Target is Precisely on The Cancer and Also Not.","In recent years, the impressive number of cancer immunotherapy drugs approved has been unprecedented-building on over a century of understanding on how the immune  system combats cancer, and how cancer evades it. Leading the charge are the immune checkpoint inhibitor monoclonal antibodies, and adoptive cell therapy with chimeric- antigen-receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy. These breakthrough therapies have led to improved survival in patients with many advanced cancers. Some of the clinical outcomes have been striking, and may even be potentially curative in some terminal cancer patients. While immune checkpoint inhibitors work by blocking regulatory immune checkpoint signals between cancer and the immune cells to awaken an effective anticancer immunity, CAR-T cell therapy targets specific molecules on cancer cells. Tumour antigens as cancer targets take many forms and  may not necessarily be proteins related to known functional cellular mechanisms.  The convergence of cutting edge omics, bioinformatics, protein synthesis, immunobiology and immunotherapy have led to novel, potentially highly effective cancer targeting against neoantigens, hence reviving the quest for anticancer vaccines. Early clinical trials of neoantigen vaccines have provided proof-of-principle efficacy, especially in melanoma patients. Combinations of immunotherapies through rational design are underway aiming to further improve clinical outcomes. Moving forward, cancer immunotherapy will gain even more momentum from the discovery of more cancer targets-both on the cancer itself and  in the tumour microenvironment as well as the identification of biomarkers of treatment resistance and efficacy."

"209. Antib Ther. 2018 Sep;1(2):65-74. doi: 10.1093/abt/tby009. Epub 2018 Oct 11.","Frontiers and Opportunities: Highlights of the 2nd Annual Conference of the Chinese Antibody Society.","The Chinese Antibody Society (CAS) convened the second annual conference in Cambridge, MA, USA on 29 April 2018. More than 600 members from around the world  attended the meeting. Invited speakers discussed the latest advancements in therapeutic antibodies with an emphasis on the progress made in China. The meeting covered a vast variety of topics including the current status of therapeutic antibodies, the progress of immuno-oncology, and biosimilars in China. The conference presentations also included the development of several novel antibodies such as antibodies related to weight loss, T-cell receptor-mimicking antibodies that target intracellular antigens, and tumor-targeting antibodies that utilize both innate and adaptive immune pathways. At the meeting, the CAS announced the launch of its official journal-Antibody Therapeutics-in collaboration with Oxford University Press. The conference was concluded by a panel discussion on how to bring a therapeutic drug developed in China to the USA for clinical trials."

"210. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Sep;31(3):293-298. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.07.011. Epub 2018 Aug 1.","The promise of CAR T-cell therapy in aggressive B-cell lymphoma.","Relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell lymphoma has an extremely poor prognosis and efforts to develop novel therapies for these patients have failed for almost  four decades until the advent of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy.  Within the last one year, two anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy products, axicabtagene ciloleucel and tisagenlecleucel, were approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma  after at least two lines of systemic therapy based on multicenter single-arm phase two clinical trials. Here, we will discuss the different components of the  CAR construct and their mechanisms of action, the role of conditioning chemotherapy, the efficacy and toxicity observed with anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapies in aggressive B-cell lymphomas, and emerging strategies to further improve the safety and efficacy of these highly promising approaches."

"211. Bull Cancer. 2018 Sep;105(9):743-745. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2018.08.001. Epub 2018 Aug 14.","[The CAR-T cells are here].","Due to immunotherapy, a new era of treatment is opening up for the treatment of solid cancers and hematological tumors. T cells genetically modified with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T cells) have recently been proved efficient in hematological malignancies expressing CD19. On June 20th 2018, the European Medicines Agency gave a favorable opinion on two types of anti-CD19 CAR-T cells - tisagenlecleucel and axicabtagène ciloleucel - in the management of malignant hemopathies B after two lines of treatment. Their remarkable efficacy has been demonstrated in the first clinical trials conducted in the United States, but they present new and potentially serious side effects (cytokine release syndrome, neurotoxicity, among others). However, this new class of gene therapy raises practical problems regarding its production circuit, its delivery conditions and  its high cost."

"212. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Sep;6(9):1100-1109. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-17-0405.  Epub 2018 Jul 20.","Reducing Ex Vivo Culture Improves the Antileukemic Activity of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells.","The success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-mediated immunotherapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) highlights the potential of T-cell therapies with directed cytotoxicity against specific tumor antigens. The efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy depends on the engraftment and persistence of T cells following adoptive  transfer. Most protocols for T-cell engineering routinely expand T cells ex vivo  for 9 to 14 days. Because the potential for engraftment and persistence is related to the state of T-cell differentiation, we hypothesized that reducing the duration of ex vivo culture would limit differentiation and enhance the efficacy  of CAR T-cell therapy. We demonstrated that T cells with a CAR-targeting CD19 (CART19) exhibited less differentiation and enhanced effector function in vitro when harvested from cultures at earlier (day 3 or 5) compared with later (day 9)  timepoints. We then compared the therapeutic potential of early versus late harvested CART19 in a murine xenograft model of ALL and showed that the antileukemic activity inversely correlated with ex vivo culture time: day 3 harvested cells showed robust tumor control despite using a 6-fold lower dose of  CART19, whereas day 9 cells failed to control leukemia at limited cell doses. We  also demonstrated the feasibility of an abbreviated culture in a large-scale current good manufacturing practice-compliant process. Limiting the interval between T-cell isolation and CAR treatment is critical for patients with rapidly  progressing disease. Generating CAR T cells in less time also improves potency, which is central to the effectiveness of these therapies. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(9); 1100-9. ©2018 AACR."

"213. Cell Immunol. 2018 Sep;331:49-58. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2018.05.004. Epub 2018 May 14.","A novel AXL chimeric antigen receptor endows T cells with anti-tumor effects against triple negative breast cancers.","Identifying targets for chimeric antigen receptor-modulated T lymphocyte (CAR-T)  therapy against solid tumors is an urgent problem to solve. In this study, we showed for the first time that the receptor tyrosine kinase, AXL, is overexpressed in various tumor cell lines and patient tumor tissues including triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell lines and patient samples, making AXL a potent novel target for cancer therapy, specifically for TNBC treatment. We also  engineered T cells with a CAR consisting of a novel single-chain variable fragment against AXL and revealed its antigen-specific cytotoxicity and ability to release cytokines in a TNBC cell line and other AXL-positive tumors in vitro.  Furthermore, AXL-CAR-T cells displayed a significant anti-tumor effect and in vivo persistence in a TNBC xenograft model. Taken together, our findings indicate that AXL-CAR-T cells can represent a promising therapeutic strategy against TNBC."

"214. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2018 Sep;13(5):446-453. doi: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000485.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell approaches to HIV cure.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has enabled tremendous progress in suppressing HIV replication in infected patients. However, ART alone cannot eradicate HIV and its latent, persisting reservoirs. Novel approaches are needed to eradicate the virus or achieve functional cure in the absence of ART. RECENT FINDINGS: Adoptive T-cell therapies were initially tested in HIV-infected  individuals with limited efficiency. Benefiting from new and improved methodologies, an increasing array of CAR T-cell therapies has been successfully  developed in the cancer immunotherapy field, demonstrating promising new avenues  that could be applied to HIV. Numerous studies have characterized various HIV-specific CAR constructs, types of cytolytic effector cells, and CAR-expressing cells trafficking to the reservoir compartments, warranting further in-vivo efforts. Notably, the ability of CAR cells to persist and function in low-antigen environments in vivo, that is, in ART-suppressed patients, remains unclear. SUMMARY: Despite promising results in preclinical studies, only a handful of clinical trials have been initiated worldwide. Several obstacles remain prior to  successful application of HIV-specific CAR T-cell therapies in patients. In this  review, we survey the current state of the field, and address paths towards realizing the goal of an efficacious HIV CAR T-cell product."

"215. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2018 Sep;27(9):733-739. doi: 10.1080/13543784.2018.1512970. Epub 2018 Aug 27.","The advances in therapy of blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm.","INTRODUCTION: Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and  aggressive myeloid malignancy that contributes to <1% of all hematologic neoplasms. Before the introduction of various targeted agents, the therapeutic approach was based on regimens used for acute lymphoblastic or myeloid leukemia and non-Hodgkins lymphoma (e.g. hyperCVAD (hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone alternating with high dose methotrexate and cytarabine) and CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) -based regimens) followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation for eligible patients. Given that this disease primarily affects  older patients, there is a significant barrier to using these highly toxic regimens, even though these regimens are usually associated with the most durable response. AREAS COVERED: In this review, we briefly discuss outcomes with the use of leukemia-based induction regimens as well as the use of stem cell transplant. We  also review low-intensity chemotherapeutic regimens. Finally, we will describe both preclinical and early clinical data regarding novel targeted strategies for  treating BPDCN without the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy, with a focus on the use of CD123 directed therapy. EXPERT OPINION: While the current standard treatment for BPDCN is acute leukemia-based regimen followed by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for transplant-eligible patients, there are very promising results for CD123 directed therapies. The future of BPDCN treatment may include targeted therapies without the need for cytotoxic chemotherapy."

"216. Glycobiology. 2018 Sep 1;28(9):656-669. doi: 10.1093/glycob/cwy008.","Glycan-directed CAR-T cells.","Cancer immunotherapy is rapidly advancing in the treatment of a variety of hematopoietic cancers, including pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia and diffuse large B cell lymphoma, with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells. CARs are genetically encoded artificial T cell receptors that combine the antigen specificity of an antibody with the machinery of T cell activation. However, implementation of CAR technology in the treatment of solid tumors has been progressing much slower. Solid tumors are characterized by a number of challenges that need to be overcome, including cellular heterogeneity, immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), and, in particular, few known cancer-specific targets. Post-translational modifications that differentially occur in malignant  cells generate valid cell surface, cancer-specific targets for CAR-T cells. We previously demonstrated that CAR-T cells targeting an aberrant O-glycosylation of MUC1, a common cancer marker associated with changes in cell adhesion, tumor growth and poor prognosis, could control malignant growth in mouse models. Here,  we discuss the field of glycan-directed CAR-T cells and review the different classes of antibodies specific for glycan-targeting, including the generation of  high affinity O-glycopeptide antibodies. Finally, we discuss historic and recently investigated glycan targets for CAR-T cells and provide our perspective  on how targeting the tumor glycoproteome and/or glycome will improve CAR-T immunotherapy."

"217. Immunotherapy. 2018 Sep;10(12):1077-1091. doi: 10.2217/imt-2018-0024.","Novel immunotherapy strategies for hepatobiliary cancers.","Despite recent advancements in therapeutic options for advanced hepatobiliary cancers, there remains an unmet need for innovative systemic treatments. Immunotherapy has shown an ability to provide prolonged clinical benefit, but this benefit remains limited to a small subset of patients. Numerous ongoing endeavors are investigating novel immunotherapy concepts. Immunotherapies that have demonstrated clinical efficacy in hepatobiliary cancers include PD-1 inhibitor therapy and CTLA-4 inhibitor therapy. Novel immunotherapy concepts include targeting emerging checkpoint proteins, bispecific T-cell engagers, combinatorial trials with checkpoint inhibitors, oncolytic virotherapy and chimeric antigen receptor T cells. The goal for these new treatment strategies is to achieve a meaningful expansion of patients deriving prolonged clinical benefit from immunotherapy."

"218. In Vitro Cell Dev Biol Anim. 2018 Sep;54(8):549-554. doi: 10.1007/s11626-018-0278-y. Epub 2018 Aug 15.","A method for expansion of T cells from cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis).","T cells have been successfully applied to cancer immunotherapy. However, a challenge is an expansion of T cells from cynomolgus monkey, which is a valuable  non-human primate model for T cell therapy transferring to the clinic. Here, we compared several strategies to expand cynomolgus monkey T cell and developed an appropriate method. Our study demonstrated that 100 ng/ml CD3 mAb + 1% PHA+ 1000 U/ml IL2 therapy significantly expanded peripheral blood CD3+ T cells without compromising T cell phenotype in vitro. The results of this study could be used for T cell remodeling, which has significant therapeutic potential in Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T (CAR-T) cell immunotherapy."

"219. In Vitro Cell Dev Biol Anim. 2018 Sep;54(8):559-566. doi: 10.1007/s11626-018-0273-3. Epub 2018 Jul 12.","Influence of various medium environment to in vitro human T cell culture.","Nowadays, adoptive T cell immunotherapy is emerging as a novel and potent treatment for cancer. To prepare enough effective T cells for treatment use, their rapid expansion is favorable. Our study compared 6 commonly used cultural media for human T cells, including serum-containing media and serum-free media, namely RPMI 1640, IMDM, Gibco OpTmizer CTS T Cell Expansion SFM, Gibco AIM-V Medium CTS, LONZA X-VIVO 15, and StemSpan SFEM with or without Dynabeads Human T-Activator CD3/CD28, on in vitro T cell expansion, apoptosis, and immune phenotype. Our study results suggest that serum-free media provide better proliferation environment for T cells. Among the 3 serum-free media, we identify  OpTmizer and AIM-V as better T cell culture environments compared with X-VIVO as  T cells are proved to have higher viability in the first two media. Besides, we found that in vitro human T cells keep relatively resting status among non-CD3/CD28 groups, since they have weak proliferation and apoptosis abilities.  The phenotypes of T cells in different cultural environments over time indicate T cells maturation during culture duration. These results provide a firm foundation of adoptive T cell immunotherapy."

"220. Int J Hyperthermia. 2018 Sep;34(6):840-852. doi: 10.1080/02656736.2017.1387938. Epub 2017 Nov 3.","A review of immune therapy in cancer and a question: can thermal therapy increase tumor response?","Immune therapy is a successful cancer treatment coming into its own. This is because checkpoint molecules, adoptive specific lymphocyte transfer and chimeric  antigen T-cell (CAR-T) therapy are able to induce more durable responses in an increasing number of malignancies compared to chemotherapy. In addition, immune therapies are able to treat bulky disease, whereas standard cytotoxic therapies cannot treat large tumour burdens. Checkpoint inhibitor monoclonal antibodies are becoming widely used in the clinic and although more complex, adoptive lymphocyte transfer and CAR-T therapies show promise. We are learning that there are nuances to predicting the successful use of the checkpoint inhibitors as well as to specific-antigen adoptive and CAR-T therapies. We are also newly aware of a here-to-fore unrealised natural force, the status of the microbiome. However, despite better understanding of mechanisms of action of the new immune therapies, the best responses to the new immune therapies remain 20-30%. Likely the best way to improve this somewhat low response rate for patients is to increase the patients own immune response. Thermal therapy is a way to do this. All forms of  thermal therapy, from fever-range systemic thermal therapy, to high-temperature HIFU and even cryotherapy improve the immune response pre-clinically. It is time  to test the immune therapies with thermal therapy in vivo to test for optimal timing of the combinations that will best enhance tumour response and then to begin to test the immune therapies with thermal therapy in the clinic as soon as  possible."

"221. J Immunother. 2018 Sep;41(7):350-358. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000241.","Systematic Evaluation of Neurotoxicity in Children and Young Adults Undergoing CD22 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy.","Neurotoxicity associated with CAR-T cell therapy can be life-threatening. With rapid development of CAR-T therapies, a systematic method is needed to identify and monitor symptoms of neurotoxicity, elucidate potential etiologies, and compare toxicity across trials. This paper presents a systematic evaluation developed and used to prospectively assess neurotoxicity in our phase I anti-CD22 CAR-T-cell trial and describes the symptoms of neurotoxicity identified using this methodology. Central nervous system (CNS) studies included routine lumbar punctures performed for disease evaluation pretherapy and posttherapy and a baseline brain MRI. Brief cognitive evaluations, assessing 4 domains (attention,  working memory, cognitive flexibility, and processing speed), were administered preinfusion and postinfusion. A newly developed CAR-T-specific neurological symptom checklist (NSC) was completed by caregivers at 3 designated time-points.  Serial serum cytokine levels were compared with neurotoxicity symptoms and severity. The majority of the first 22 consecutively treated subjects (ages, 7-30) demonstrated stable or improved cognitive test scores following therapy and no irreversible neurotoxicity, despite CAR-T-related antileukemic response, cytokine release syndrome, and trafficking of CAR-T cells to the CSF. The NSC allowed us to document the type and timing of symptoms and explore the etiology of neurotoxicity associated with CD22 CAR-T therapy. Cytokine profiling demonstrated that more concerning symptoms of neurotoxicity, such as hallucination and disorientation, were significantly associated with higher serum cytokine levels, supporting the hypothesis of inflammation-driven neurotoxicity.  Systematic assessments of neurotoxicity were feasible in acutely ill children and young adults and served to characterize and monitor the symptoms associated with  CAR-T therapy. We recommend these evaluations be incorporated into future immunotherapy protocols."

"223. Leuk Lymphoma. 2018 Sep;59(9):2056-2067. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2017.1393668. Epub 2017 Nov 6.","CAR T cell therapy for multiple myeloma: where are we now and where are we headed?","While recent progress has been made in the management of multiple myeloma, it remains a highly fatal malignancy especially among patients with relapsed-refractory disease. Immunotherapy with adoptive T cells targeting myeloma-associated antigens are at various stages of development and have brought about a new hope for cure. This is a review on the emerging field of adoptively transferred engineered T cell based approaches, with an in-depth focus on chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) targeting multiple myeloma. The recent results from CAR T cells targeting B cell maturation antigen are encouraging but eventual resistance to the CAR T cell therapies remain problematic. With newer approaches  in therapies for multiple myeloma, the role of transplantation is evolved to form a platform for T cell therapies."

"224. Leukemia. 2018 Sep;32(9):1970-1983. doi: 10.1038/s41375-018-0065-5. Epub 2018 Feb 20.","An off-the-shelf fratricide-resistant CAR-T for the treatment of T cell hematologic malignancies.","T cell malignancies represent a group of hematologic cancers with high rates of relapse and mortality in patients for whom no effective targeted therapies exist. The shared expression of target antigens between chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)  T cells and malignant T cells has limited the development of CAR-T because of unintended CAR-T fratricide and an inability to harvest sufficient autologous T cells. Here, we describe a fratricide-resistant off-the-shelf CAR-T (or UCART7) that targets CD7+ T cell malignancies and, through CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing, lacks both CD7 and T cell receptor alpha chain (TRAC) expression. UCART7 demonstrates efficacy against human T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell lines and primary T-ALL in vitro and in vivo without the induction of xenogeneic GvHD. Fratricide-resistant, allo-tolerant off-the-shelf CAR-T represents a strategy for treatment of relapsed and refractory T-ALL and non-Hodgkins T cell lymphoma without a requirement for autologous T cells."

"225. Nat Biotechnol. 2018 Sep;36(8):707-716. doi: 10.1038/nbt.4181. Epub 2018 Jul 9.","Enhancing T cell therapy through TCR-signaling-responsive nanoparticle drug delivery.",""

"226. Nat Mater. 2018 Sep;17(9):761-772. doi: 10.1038/s41563-018-0147-9. Epub 2018 Aug  13.","Biomaterial-assisted targeted modulation of immune cells in cancer treatment.","The past decade has witnessed the accelerating development of immunotherapies for cancer treatment. Immune checkpoint blockade therapies and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapies have demonstrated clinical efficacy against a variety of cancers. However, issues including life-threatening off-target side effects, long processing times, limited patient responses and high cost still limit the clinical utility of cancer immunotherapies. Biomaterial carriers of these therapies, though, enable one to troubleshoot the delivery issues, amplify  immunomodulatory effects, integrate the synergistic effect of different molecules and, more importantly, home and manipulate immune cells in vivo. In this Review,  we will analyse thus-far developed immunomaterials for targeted modulation of dendritic cells, T cells, tumour-associated macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, B cells and natural killer cells, and summarize the promises and challenges of cell-targeted immunomodulation for cancer treatment."

"227. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2018 Sep;65(9):e27265. doi: 10.1002/pbc.27265. Epub 2018 May 24.","Myeloid lineage switch following chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy in a patient with TCF3-ZNF384 fusion-positive B-lymphoblastic leukemia.","A pediatric patient diagnosed initially with B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) relapsed with lineage switch to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) after chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplant. A TCF3-ZNF384 fusion was identified at diagnosis, persisted through B-ALL relapse,  and was also present in the AML relapse cell population. ZNF384-rearrangements define a molecular subtype of B-ALL characterized by a pro-B-cell immunophenotype; furthermore, ZNF384-rearrangements are prevalent in mixed-phenotype acute leukemias. Lineage switch following CAR-T therapy has been  described in patients with KMT2A (mixed lineage leukemia) rearrangements, but not previously in any patient with ZNF384 fusion."

"228. Precis Clin Med. 2018 Sep;1(2):65-74. doi: 10.1093/pcmedi/pby011. Epub 2018 Sep 6.","Recent updates on cancer immunotherapy.","Traditional cancer therapies include surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, all of which are typically non-specific approaches. Cancer immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that helps the immune system fight cancer. Cancer immunotherapy  represents a standing example of precision medicine: immune checkpoint inhibitors precisely target the checkpoints; tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, TCR T cells, and CAR T cells precisely kill cancer cells through tumor antigen recognition; and cancer vaccines are made from patient-derived dendritic cells, tumor cell DNA, or RNA, or oncolytic viruses, thus offering a type of personalized medicine. This review will highlight up-to-date advancement in most, if not all, of the immunotherapy strategies."

"229. Synth Syst Biotechnol. 2018 Sep 1;3(3):179-185. doi: 10.1016/j.synbio.2018.08.001. eCollection 2018 Sep.","Synthetic immunology: T-cell engineering and adoptive immunotherapy.","During the past decades, the rapidly-evolving cancer is hard to be thoroughly eliminated even though the radiotherapy and chemotherapy do exhibit efficacy in some degree. However, a breakthrough appeared when the adoptive cancer therapy [1] was developed, especially T cells armed with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) showed great potential in tumor clinical trials recently. CAR-T cells successfully elevated the efficiency and specificity of cytotoxicity. In this review, we will talk about the design of CAR and CAR-included combinatory therapeutic applications in the principles of systems and synthetic immunology."

"230. Trends Mol Med. 2018 Sep;24(9):729-731. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2018.06.007. Epub 2018 Jul 4.","Insights into Chimeric Antigen Receptor Therapy for Chronic Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","In a recent study, Fraietta and colleagues identified chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell biomarkers that may predict the success or failure of CAR therapy in patients with refractory chronic lymphoblastic leukemia (CLL). These findings open new prospects for improving T cell product manufacturing and the management  of patients with CLL undergoing T cell-based therapies."

"231. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2018 Aug 28;11:20-38. doi: 10.1016/j.omto.2018.08.002. eCollection 2018 Dec 21.","Checkpoint Blockade Reverses Anergy in IL-13Rα2 Humanized scFv-Based CAR T Cells  to Treat Murine and Canine Gliomas.","We generated two humanized interleukin-13 receptor α2 (IL-13Rα2) chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), Hu07BBz and Hu08BBz, that recognized human IL-13Rα2, but not IL-13Rα1. Hu08BBz also recognized canine IL-13Rα2. Both of these CAR T cell constructs demonstrated superior tumor inhibitory effects in a subcutaneous xenograft model of human glioma compared with a humanized EGFRvIII CAR T construct used in a recent phase 1 clinical trial (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02209376). The Hu08BBz demonstrated a 75% reduction in orthotopic tumor growth using low-dose CAR T cell infusion. Using combination therapy with immune checkpoint blockade, humanized IL-13Rα2 CAR T cells performed significantly better when combined with CTLA-4 blockade, and humanized EGFRvIII CAR T cells efficacy was improved by PD-1 and TIM-3 blockade in the same mouse model, which was correlated with the levels of checkpoint molecule expression in co-cultures with the same tumor in vitro. Humanized IL-13Rα2 CAR T cells also demonstrated benefit from a self-secreted anti-CTLA-4 minibody in the same mouse model. In addition to a canine glioma cell line (J3T), canine osteosarcoma lung cancer and  leukemia cell lines also express IL-13Rα2 and were recognized by Hu08BBz. Canine  IL-13Rα2 CAR T cell was also generated and tested in vitro by co-culture with canine tumor cells and in vivo in an orthotopic model of canine glioma. Based on  these results, we are designing a pre-clinical trial to evaluate the safety of canine IL-13Rα2 CAR T cells in dog with spontaneous IL-13Rα2-positive glioma, which will help to inform a human clinical trial design for glioblastoma using humanized scFv-based IL-13Rα2 targeting CAR T cells."

"233. Blood. 2018 Aug 23;132(8):777-781. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-04-839217. Epub 2018 Jun 18.","Translating anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy into clinical practice for relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells demonstrate efficacy in B-cell malignancies, leading to US Food and Drug Administration approval of axicabtagene ciloleucel (October 2017) and tisagenlecleucel (May 2018) for large B-cell lymphomas after 2 prior lines of therapy. Durable remissions are seen in 30% to 40% of study-treated patients, but toxicities of cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity require administration in specialized centers. This article reviews data of current diffuse large B-cell lymphoma management, focusing on axicabtagene ciloleucel, tisagenlecleucel, and lisocabtagene maraleucel."

"235. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Aug 22;6(1):81. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0389-8.","Design considerations for early-phase clinical trials of immune-oncology agents.","BACKGROUND: With numerous and fast approvals of different agents including immune checkpoint inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies, or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)  T-cell therapy, immunotherapy is now an established form of cancer treatment. These agents have demonstrated impressive clinical activity across many tumor types, but also revealed different toxicity profiles and mechanisms of action. The classic assumptions imposed by cytotoxic agents may no longer be applicable,  requiring new strategies for dose selection and trial design. DESCRIPTION: This main goal of this article is to summarize and highlight main challenges of early-phase study design of immunotherapies from a statistical perspective. We compared the underlying toxicity and efficacy assumptions of cytotoxic versus immune-oncology agents, proposed novel endpoints to be included  in the dose-selection process, and reviewed design considerations to be considered for early-phase trials. When available, references to software and/or  web-based applications were also provided to ease the implementation. Throughout  the paper, concrete examples from completed (pembrolizumab, nivolumab) or ongoing trials were used to motivate the main ideas including recommendation of alternative designs. CONCLUSION: Further advances in the effectiveness of cancer immunotherapies will  require new approaches that include redefining the optimal dose to be carried forward in later phases, incorporating additional endpoints in the dose selection process (PK, PD, immune-based biomarkers), developing personalized biomarker profiles, or testing drug combination therapies to improve efficacy and reduce toxicity."

"236. Sci Signal. 2018 Aug 21;11(544). pii: eaat6753. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.aat6753.","Phosphoproteomic analysis of chimeric antigen receptor signaling reveals kinetic  and quantitative differences that affect cell function.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) link an antigen recognition domain to intracellular signaling domains to redirect T cell specificity and function. T cells expressing CARs with CD28/CD3ζ or 4-1BB/CD3ζ signaling domains are effective at treating refractory B cell malignancies but exhibit differences in effector function, clinical efficacy, and toxicity that are assumed to result from the activation of divergent signaling cascades. We analyzed stimulation-induced phosphorylation events in primary human CD8+ CD28/CD3ζ and 4-1BB/CD3ζ CAR T cells by mass spectrometry and found that both CAR constructs activated similar signaling intermediates. Stimulation of CD28/CD3ζ CARs activated faster and larger-magnitude changes in protein phosphorylation, which correlated with an effector T cell-like phenotype and function. In contrast, 4-1BB/CD3ζ CAR T cells preferentially expressed T cell memory-associated genes and exhibited sustained antitumor activity against established tumors in vivo. Mutagenesis of the CAR CD28 signaling domain demonstrated that the increased CD28/CD3ζ CAR signal intensity was partly related to constitutive association of  Lck with this domain in CAR complexes. Our data show that CAR signaling pathways  cannot be predicted solely by the domains used to construct the receptor and that signal strength is a key determinant of T cell fate. Thus, tailoring CAR design based on signal strength may lead to improved clinical efficacy and reduced toxicity."

"237. Curr Oncol Rep. 2018 Aug 18;20(9):75. doi: 10.1007/s11912-018-0712-z.","Immunotherapy in Prostate Cancer: Teaching an Old Dog New Tricks.","Immunotherapy is rapidly transforming cancer care across a range of tumor types.  Although Sipuleucel-T represented the first successful vaccine for the treatment  of established cancer, other immunotherapeutic approaches for prostate cancer such as checkpoint inhibitors have been relatively disappointing to date. However, significant promise is on the horizon as there is a wide array trials evaluating immunotherapy in prostate cancer patients. These include both immune checkpoint inhibitors and antigen-specific approaches including vaccines, antibody-drug conjugates, and antitumor antibodies. Furthermore, a better understanding of the key mechanisms that promote the immunosuppressive microenvironment of prostate cancer is emerging. These insights may eventually make it possible to determine which patients will benefit from immunotherapy. This review will discuss the successes and failures of immunotherapy in prostate  cancer. We will also present key lessons learned from completed trials and highlight important ongoing studies."

"238. Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 15;78(16):4692-4703. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-0030. Epub 2018 Jul 2.","CRISPR/Cas9-Mediated Knockout of DGK Improves Antitumor Activities of Human T Cells.","The efficacy of T-cell therapy is inhibited by various tumor-associated immunosuppressive ligands and soluble factors. Such inhibitory signals turn specific T-cell signaling pathways on or off, impeding the anticancer functions of T cells. Many studies have focused on PD-1 or CTLA-4 blockade to invigorate T-cell functions through CD28/B7 signaling, but obtaining robust clinical outcomes remains challenging. In this study, we use CRISPR/Cas9 to potentiate T-cell function by increasing CD3 signaling via knockout of diacylglycerol kinase (DGK), an enzyme that metabolizes diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid. Knockout of DGK augmented the effector functions of CAR-T cells in vitro via increased TCR signaling. DGK knockout from CAR-T cells rendered them resistant to soluble immunosuppressive factors such as TGFβ and prostaglandin E2 and sustained effector functions under conditions of repeated tumor stimulation. Moreover, DGK  knockout caused significant regression of U87MGvIII glioblastoma tumors through enhanced effector functions in a xenograft mouse model. Collectively, our study shows that knockout of DGK effectively enhances the effector functions of CAR-T cells, suggesting that CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of DGK could be applicable as part of a multifaceted clinical strategy to treat solid cancers.Significance:  This novel study demonstrates efficient ablation of diacylglycerol kinase in human CAR-T cells that leads to improved antitumor immunity and may have significant impact in human cancer immunotherapy. Cancer Res; 78(16); 4692-703. ©2018 AACR."

"239. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 15;24(16):3981-3993. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1788. Epub 2018 May 10.","Aberrant Lck Signal via CD28 Costimulation Augments Antigen-Specific Functionality and Tumor Control by Redirected T Cells with PD-1 Blockade in Humanized Mice.","Purpose: Combination therapy of adoptively transferred redirected T cells and checkpoint inhibitors aims for higher response rates in tumors poorly responsive  to immunotherapy like malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). Only most recently the issue of an optimally active chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and the combination with checkpoint inhibitors is starting to be addressed.Experimental Design: Fibroblast activation protein (FAP)-specific CARs with different costimulatory domains, including CD28, Δ-CD28 (lacking lck binding moiety), or 4-1BB were established. CAR-T cells were characterized in vitro and antitumor efficacy was tested in vivo in a humanized mouse model in combination with PD-1 blockade. Finally, the Δ-CD28 CAR was tested clinically in a patient with MPM.Results: All the three CARs demonstrated FAP-specific functionality in vitro  Gene expression data indicated a distinct activity profile for the Δ-CD28 CAR, including higher expression of genes involved in cell division, glycolysis, fatty acid oxidation, and oxidative phosphorylation. In vivo, only T cells expressing the Δ-CD28 CAR in combination with PD-1 blockade controlled tumor growth. When injected into the pleural effusion of a patient with MPM, the Δ-CD28 CAR could be detected for up to 21 days and showed functionality.Conclusions: Overall, anti-FAP-Δ-CD28/CD3ζ CAR T cells revealed superior in vitro functionality, better tumor control in combination with PD-1 blockade in humanized mice, and persistence up to 21 days in a patient with MPM. Therefore, further clinical investigation of this optimized CAR is warranted. Clin Cancer Res; 24(16); 3981-93. ©2018 AACR."

"240. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Aug 13;11(1):102. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0646-9.","Recombination of a dual-CAR-modified T lymphocyte to accurately eliminate pancreatic malignancy.","BACKGROUND: The therapeutic application of T cells endowing with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is faced with on-target, off-tumor toxicity against solid tumors, particularly in the treatment of the pancreatic cancer. To our best knowledge, the pancreatic cancer cell line AsPC-1 often highly expressed some distinct tumor-associated antigens, such as carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) and mesothelin (MSLN). Therefore, in this research, we have characterized dual-receptor CAR-modified T cells (dCAR-T) that exert effective and safe cytotoxicity against AsPC-1 cells. METHODS: Based on the dual signaling pathway of wild T cells, we designed a novel dCAR diagram specific for CEA and MSLN, which achieved comparable activity relative to that of conventional CAR-T cells (CEA-CAR T or MSLN-CAR T). In this dCAR, a tandem construct containing two physically separate structures, CEA-CD3ζ  and MSLN-4/1BB signaling domains were effectively controlled with tumor antigens  CEA and MSLN, respectively. Finally, the activity of dCAR-T cells has been verified via in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: In the presence of cognate tumor cells (AsPC-1) expressing both CEA and  MSLN, dCAR-T cells exerted high anti-tumor activity relative to that of other single-receptor CAR-T cells bearing only one signaling pathway (e.g., Cζ-CAR and  MBB-CAR). In a xenograft model, dCAR-T cells significantly inhibited the growth of AsPC-1 cells yet no effect on the growth of non-cognate tumor cells. Furthermore, the released cytokines and T cell persistence in mice were comparable with that of conventional CAR-T cells, obtaining specific and controllable cytotoxicity. CONCLUSIONS: A novel type of CAR-T cells, termed dCAR-T, was designed with specific activities, that is, significant cytotoxicity for two antigen-positive tumor cells yet no cytotoxicity for single antigen-positive tumor cells. Dual-targeted CAR-T cells can be precisely localized at the tumor site and can exert high cytotoxicity against tumor cells, alleviating on-target, off-tumor toxicity and enabling accurate application of CAR-T cell therapy."

"241. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Aug 11;19(8). pii: E2365. doi: 10.3390/ijms19082365.","The Generation of CAR-Transfected Natural Killer T Cells for the Immunotherapy of Melanoma.","Natural killer T (NKT) cells represent a cell subpopulation that combines characteristics of natural killer (NK) cells and T cells. Through their endogenous T-cell receptors (TCRs), they reveal a pronounced intrinsic anti-tumor activity. Thus, a NKT cell transfected with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), which recognizes a tumor-specific surface antigen, could attack tumor cells antigen-specifically via the CAR and additionally through its endogenous TCR. NKT cells were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), expanded, and electroporated with mRNA encoding a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4)-specific CAR. The CAR expression on NKT cells and their in vitro functionality were analyzed. A transfection efficiency of more than 80% was achieved. Upon stimulation with melanoma cells, CAR-NKT cells produced cytokines  antigen-specifically. Compared with conventional CAR-T cells, cytokine secretion  of CAR-NKT cells was generally lower. Specific cytotoxicity, however, was similar with CAR-NKT cells showing a trend towards improved cytotoxicity. Additionally, CAR-NKT cells could kill target cells through their endogenous TCRs. In summary,  it is feasible to generate CAR-NKT cells by using mRNA electroporation. Their CAR-mediated cytotoxicity is at least equal to that of conventional CAR-T cells,  while their intrinsic cytotoxic activity is maintained. Thus, CAR-NKT cells may represent a valuable alternative to conventional CAR-T cells for cancer immunotherapy."

"242. Front Immunol. 2018 Aug 10;9:1821. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01821. eCollection 2018.","Targeting B Cell Maturation Antigen (BCMA) in Multiple Myeloma: Potential Uses of BCMA-Based Immunotherapy.","The approval of the first two monoclonal antibodies targeting CD38 (daratumumab)  and SLAMF7 (elotuzumab) in late 2015 for treating relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) was a critical advance for immunotherapies for multiple myeloma (MM). Importantly, the outcome of patients continues to improve with the  incorporation of this new class of agents with current MM therapies. However, both antigens are also expressed on other normal tissues including hematopoietic  lineages and immune effector cells, which may limit their long-term clinical use. B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), a transmembrane glycoprotein in the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily 17 (TNFRSF17), is expressed at significantly higher levels in all patient MM cells but not on other normal tissues except normal plasma cells. Importantly, it is an antigen targeted by chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells, which have already shown significant clinical activities  in patients with RRMM who have undergone at least three prior treatments, including a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent. Moreover, the first anti-BCMA antibody-drug conjugate also has achieved significant clinical responses in patients who failed at least three prior lines of therapy, including an anti-CD38 antibody, a proteasome inhibitor, and an immunomodulatory agent. Both BCMA targeting immunotherapies were granted breakthrough status for patients with RRMM by FDA in Nov 2017. Other promising BCMA-based immunotherapeutic macromolecules including bispecific T-cell engagers, bispecific molecules, bispecific or trispecific antibodies, as well as improved forms of next generation CAR T cells, also demonstrate high anti-MM activity in preclinical and even early clinical studies. Here, we focus on the biology of this promising MM target antigen and then highlight preclinical and clinical data of current BCMA-targeted immunotherapies with various mechanisms of action. These crucial studies will enhance selective anti-MM response, transform the treatment paradigm, and extend disease-free survival in MM."

"243. Vaccines (Basel). 2018 Aug 10;6(3). pii: E54. doi: 10.3390/vaccines6030054.","Early Investigations and Recent Advances in Intraperitoneal Immunotherapy for Peritoneal Metastasis."," Peritoneal metastasis (PM) is an advanced stage malignancy largely refractory to  modern therapy. Intraperitoneal (IP) immunotherapy offers a novel approach for the control of regional disease of the peritoneal cavity by breaking immune tolerance. These strategies include heightening T-cell response and vaccine induction of anti-cancer memory against tumor-associated antigens. Early investigations with chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells), vaccine-based therapies, dendritic cells (DCs) in combination with pro-inflammatory cytokines and natural killer cells (NKs), adoptive cell transfer, and immune checkpoint inhibitors represent significant advances in the  treatment of PM. IP delivery of CAR-T cells has shown demonstrable suppression of tumors expressing carcinoembryonic antigen. This response was enhanced when IP injected CAR-T cells were combined with anti-PD-L1 or anti-Gr1. Similarly, CAR-T  cells against folate receptor α expressing tumors improved T-cell tumor localization and survival when combined with CD137 co-stimulatory signaling. Moreover, IP immunotherapy with catumaxomab, a trifunctional antibody approved in Europe, targets epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) and has shown considerable promise with control of malignant ascites. Herein, we discuss immunologic approaches under investigation for treatment of PM."

"244. J Immunol Res. 2018 Aug 8;2018:6984948. doi: 10.1155/2018/6984948. eCollection 2018.","Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Therapy for Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: Toward Personalized Medicine and Combination Strategies.","Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide with the poor prognosis. Encouragingly, immune checkpoint blockade targeting programmed death-1 (PD-1) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) has dramatically  changed the landscape for treatments in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer  (NSCLC). However, only a small proportion of NSCLC patients responded to monotherapy of anti-PD-1/PDL1 agents; together, the development of resistance to  anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy that leads to failure of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy has significantly limited a broad applicability of the findings in clinical practices. Nowadays, several companion diagnostic assays for PDL1 expression have been introduced for identifying patients who may benefit the immunotherapy. In addition, results from clinical trials explored combinatory therapeutic strategies with conventional and/or targeted therapy reported a higher efficacy with an acceptable safety profile in NSCLC treatments, as compared to the monotherapy of these agents alone. In this review article, we summarized several  anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents licensed for NSCLC treatment, with a focus on predictive biomarkers and companion diagnostic assays for identification of NSCLC patients for immunotherapy anti-PD-1/PDL1 antibodies. Of a great interest, potentials of the combinatory therapy of anti-PD-1/PDL1 therapy with a conventional or targeted therapy, or other immunotherapy such as CAR-T cell therapy were emphasized in the article."

"245. Nat Commun. 2018 Aug 3;9(1):3049. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-05395-y.","The chimeric TAC receptor co-opts the T cell receptor yielding robust anti-tumor  activity without toxicity.","Engineering T cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is an effective method for directing T cells to attack tumors, but may cause adverse side effects such as the potentially lethal cytokine release syndrome. Here the authors show that the T cell antigen coupler (TAC), a chimeric receptor that co-opts the endogenous TCR, induces more efficient anti-tumor responses and reduced toxicity when compared with past-generation CARs. TAC-engineered T cells induce robust and antigen-specific cytokine production and cytotoxicity in vitro, and strong anti-tumor activity in a variety of xenograft models including solid and liquid tumors. In a solid tumor model, TAC-T cells outperform CD28-based CAR-T cells with increased anti-tumor efficacy, reduced toxicity, and faster tumor infiltration. Intratumoral TAC-T cells are enriched for Ki-67+ CD8+ T cells, demonstrating local expansion. These results indicate that TAC-T cells may have a superior therapeutic index relative to CAR-T cells."

"246. Cell Stem Cell. 2018 Aug 2;23(2):160-161. doi: 10.1016/j.stem.2018.07.007.","Off-the-Shelf CAR-NK Cells for Cancer Immunotherapy.","CAR-T therapy has shown great success treating blood cancers, but drawbacks include high manufacturing costs and potentially fatal toxicities such as cytokine release syndrome. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Li et al. (2018) describe how engineered iPSC-derived NK cells armed with NK-tailored CAR constructs (CAR-iPSC-NK cells) provide better options for anti-cancer immunotherapy."

"247. Ann Hematol. 2018 Aug;97(8):1327-1335. doi: 10.1007/s00277-018-3368-8. Epub 2018  May 15.","The severe cytokine release syndrome in phase I trials of CD19-CAR-T cell therapy: a systematic review.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has shown impressive results  in treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), chronic lymphoblastic leukemia  (B-CLL), and B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) over the past few years. Meanwhile, the cytokine release syndrome (CRS), which could be moderate or even life-threatening, has emerged as the most significant adverse effect in the clinical course of this novel targeting immunotherapy. In this systematic review, we analyzed the incidence of severe CRS in 19 clinical trials selected from studies published between 2010 and 2017. The pooled severe CRS proportion was 29.3% (95% confidence interval [CI] 12.3-49.1%) in B-ALL, 38.8% (95%CI 12.9-67.6%) in B-CLL, and 19.8% (95%CI 4.2-40.8%) in B-NHL. In the univariate meta regression analysis, the proliferation of CD19-CAR-T cell in vivo was correlated with the severe CRS. Specifically, total infusion cell dose contributed to the severe CRS occurring in B-ALL patients but not in B-CLL or B-NHL patients. Tumor burden was strongly associated with the severity of CRS in  B-ALL. Besides, post-HSCT CD19 CAR-T cell infusion represented lower severe CRS incidence. Further investigations into the risk factors of CRS in B-CLL and B-NHL are needed."

"248. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 2018 Aug;66(4):283-288. doi: 10.1007/s00005-018-0507-9. Epub 2018 Feb 9.","Adverse Effects Associated with Clinical Applications of CAR Engineered T Cells.","Cancer has been ranked as the second leading cause of death in the United States. To reduce cancer mortality, immunotherapy is gaining momentum among other therapeutic modalities, due to its impressive results in clinical trials. The genetically engineered T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are emerging as a new approach in cancer immunotherapy, with the most successful outcomes in the refractory/relapse hematologic malignancies. However, the widespread clinical applications are limited by adverse effects some of which are life-threatening. Strategies to reduce the chance of side effects as well as close monitoring, rapid diagnosis and proper treatment of side effects are necessary to take the most advantages of this valuable therapy. Here we review the reported toxicities associated with CAR engineered T cells, the strategies to ameliorate the toxicity, and further techniques and designs leading to a safer CAR T-cell therapy."

"249. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2018 Aug;24(8):1590-1595. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.05.014. Epub 2018 May 14.","Cardiac Profile of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy in Children: A Single-Institution Experience.","Immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells targeting CD19 for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has demonstrated significant efficacy. The principle toxicity is cytokine release syndrome with resultant hypotension. However, the spectrum of cardiovascular effects associated with CAR T cell therapy has not been systematically evaluated. We reviewed all patients who received CD19-directed CAR T cells at the Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia between April 2012 and September 2016. The primary endpoint was hypotension-requiring inotropic support. Secondary endpoints included echocardiographic dysfunction at discharge and 6-month follow-up. Descriptive and univariate analyses were performed, and 98 encounters were included (55% male patients; mean age, 11.8 years [range, 1.7 to 27.1]); 98% had B-ALL. Before infusion 10 had cardiomyopathy and 1 had single-ventricle physiology. Primary endpoint occurred in 24 patients with mean onset 4.6 days (range, 1 to 9) after CAR T cell infusion, including 6 patients receiving milrinone. Worsened systolic  function occurred in 10 patients; there were no cardiac-related deaths. Pretreatment factors associated with primary endpoint included higher pretreatment blast percentage on bone marrow biopsy (blast > 25%: odds ratio, 15.5; 95% confidence interval, 5.1 to 47.1; P < .001) and baseline lower ejection fraction (P = .019) or diastolic dysfunction (P = .021); neither pre-existing cardiomyopathy (P = .062), total body irradiation (P = .629), nor anthracycline dose (P = .444) were associated. At discharge, 7 patients had worsened echocardiographic function, but persistent dysfunction by the 6-month follow-up was rare. Pretreatment factors were not associated with persistent dysfunction at discharge. This is the first study to describe the cardiovascular effects of pediatric CAR T cell therapy. Although 10% had new systolic dysfunction after treatment, persistence was rare. Pretreatment blast count > 25% or pre-existing cardiac dysfunction increased the risk for hypotension-requiring inotropic support; these patients may warrant close observation."

"250. Cancer Biol Med. 2018 Aug;15(3):189-209. doi: 10.20892/j.issn.2095-3941.2018.0037.","New developments in immunotherapy for lymphoma.","The development of immunotherapies for lymphoma has undergone a revolutionary evolution over the past decades. Since the advent of rituximab as the first successful immunotherapy for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma over two decades ago, a  plethora of new immunotherapeutic approaches to treat lymphoma has ensued. Four of the most exciting classes of immunotherapies include: chimeric antigen receptor T-cells, bispecific antibodies, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and vaccines. However, with addition of these novel therapies the appropriate timing  of treatment, optimal patient population, duration of therapy, toxicity, and cost must be considered. In this review, we describe the most-promising immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of lymphoma in clinical development, specifically focusing on clinical trials performed to date and strategies for improvement."

"251. Cancer Discov. 2018 Aug;8(8):918-920. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-18-0672.","CAR T-cell Integration of Multiple Input Signals Allows for Precise Targeting of  Cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-mediated adoptive T-cell therapy has achieved unprecedented success in the treatment of relapsed and refractory hematologic malignancies. However, this success may be more difficult to recapitulate in the  treatment of metastatic solid tumors, where the lack of costimulatory signals and cytokine support as well as the strongly inhibitory microenvironment pose a substantial challenge to unleashing the antitumor potential of CAR T cells. Furthermore, nearly all described target antigens are expressed on normal tissue. In this issue of Cancer Discovery, Sukumaran and colleagues address these challenges by engineering T cells to recognize a specific expression pattern unique to the tumor site using independent chimeric molecules that cooperatively  deliver a fully functional T-cell response selectively in the tumor microenvironment. Cancer Discov; 8(8); 918-20. ©2018 AACRSee related article by Sukumaran et al., p. 972."

"252. Cancer Discov. 2018 Aug;8(8):OF16. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-RW2018-102. Epub 2018 Jun 15.","IL1 Blockade May Ameliorate Cytokine Release Syndrome.","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"253. Cancer Discov. 2018 Aug;8(8):958-971. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-17-1319. Epub 2018 Jun 7.","Clinical and Biological Correlates of Neurotoxicity Associated with CAR T-cell Therapy in Patients with B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is highly effective  against relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but is hindered by neurotoxicity. In 53 adult patients with ALL, we found a significant  association of severe neurotoxicity with high pretreatment disease burden, higher peak CAR T-cell expansion, and early and higher elevations of proinflammatory cytokines in blood. Patients with severe neurotoxicity had evidence of blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier disruption correlating with neurotoxicity grade without association with CSF white blood cell count or CAR T-cell quantity  in CSF. Proinflammatory cytokines were enriched in CSF during severe neurotoxicity with disproportionately high levels of IL6, IL8, MCP1, and IP10, suggesting central nervous system-specific production. Seizures, seizure-like activity, myoclonus, and neuroimaging characteristics suggested excitatory neurotoxicity, and we found elevated levels of endogenous excitatory agonists in  CSF during neurotoxicity.Significance: We detail the neurologic symptoms and blood, CSF, and neuroimaging correlates of neurotoxicity associated with CD19 CAR T cells and identify neurotoxicity risk factors. Our findings implicate cellular  components other than T cells and suggest novel links between systemic inflammation and characteristic neurotoxicity symptoms. Cancer Discov; 8(8); 958-71. ©2018 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 899."

"254. Clin Infect Dis. 2018 Aug 1;67(4):533-540. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciy152.","Cytokine Release Syndrome Grade as a Predictive Marker for Infections in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treated With Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells.","Background: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells that target the CD19 antigen present a novel promising therapy for the treatment of relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Although cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity have emerged as predominant noninfectious complications of CD19 CAR T-cell therapy, infections associated with this treatment modality have not been well documented. Methods: We analyzed infectious complications that followed CD19 CAR T-cell therapy in 53 adult patients with relapsed B-ALL enrolled in a phase I clinical trial at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (NCT01044069). Results: Overall, 22 patients (42%) experienced 26 infections (17 bacterial, 4 fungal, and 5 viral) within the first 30 days of CAR T-cell infusion. In 10 of 32 (31%) patients in whom complete remission was achieved, 15 infections developed between days 31 and 180; the majority of these late infections were due to respiratory viruses. In general, bacterial, fungal, and viral infections were detected at a median of 18, 23, and 48 days, respectively, after CAR T-cell infusion. CRS grade 3 or higher was independently associated with increased risk  of subsequent infection (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 2.67; P = .05) and in particular with bloodstream infection (adjusted HR, 19.97; P < .001). Three of 53 patients (6%) died of an infection-related cause. Conclusions: Infections in adult patients with relapsed B-ALL are common after CD19 CAR T-cell therapy. Understanding the infectious complications that are temporally coincident with CD19 CAR T-cell therapy is critical for developing effective prophylactic and other supportive care measures to improve clinical outcomes. Clinical Trials Registration: NCT01044069."

"255. Clin Med (Lond). 2018 Aug;18(4):324-328. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.18-4-324.","Cancer immunotherapy with CAR-T cells - behold the future.","Cellular therapy is a key tool to treat haematological malignancies. Over 40,000  allogeneic and autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCTs) are performed annually across Europe.1 Since 2017, a new T cell therapy, chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cells have been licensed outside clinical trials. CAR-T cells have extremely potent antitumour activity, but also have a profile of toxic side effects not seen before. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and CAR-T cell-related encephalopathy syndrome (CRES) are common, predictable and potentially lethal side effects. Patients frequently require admission to intensive care, and management from a number of medical specialties. This exciting and powerful new therapy requires the formation of new multispecialty medical teams for safe delivery and to successfully manage the resultant complications."

"256. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Aug;13(4):289-299. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0457-7.","Novel Therapies in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Treatment options for patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) beyond standard chemotherapy have grown significantly in recent years. In this review, we highlight new targeted therapies in ALL, with an emphasis on immunotherapy. RECENT FINDINGS: Major advances include antibody-based therapies, such as naked monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates and bispecific T cell engaging (BiTE) antibodies, as well as adoptive cellular therapies such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. Apart from the above immunotherapeutic approaches, other targeted therapies are being employed in Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) ALL, Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) ALL, and T cell ALL. These new treatment strategies are changing the treatment landscape of ALL and challenging the current standard of care. Clinical trials will hopefully help determine how to best incorporate these novel therapies into existing treatment algorithms."

"257. Curr Oncol Rep. 2018 Aug 1;20(9):73. doi: 10.1007/s11912-018-0715-9.","Adoptive Cell Therapy in Treating Pediatric Solid Tumors.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review will discuss the challenges facing adoptive cell techniques in the treatment of solid tumors and examine the therapies that are in development for specifically pediatric solid tumors. RECENT FINDINGS: Targeting solid tumors with adoptive cell therapy has been limited by the inhibitory tumor microenvironment and heterogeneous expression of  targetable antigens. Many creative strategies to overcome these limitations are being developed but still need to be tested clinically. Early phase clinical trials in neuroblastoma with GD2 CAR T cells are promising but results need to be validated on a larger scale. Most research in other pediatric solid tumors is still in early stages. Adoptive cell therapy represents a useful tool to improve  the outcomes of many pediatric solid tumors but significant study is still required. Several clinical trials are ongoing to test therapies that have shown promise in the lab."

"258. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2018 Aug;36(3):485-492. doi: 10.1016/j.emc.2018.04.006.  Epub 2018 Jun 11.","The Latest Cancer Agents and Their Complications.","The latest cancer agents, collectively known as cancer immunotherapy, have tremendously increased the armamentarium against cancer. Their targeted mechanisms seem ideal, but they do come with complications. As these therapies become more widespread, emergency physicians everywhere must be aware of the immune-related adverse events that can occur, and be ready to identify and coordinate treatment. This article provides the emergency physician with a brief  introduction and overview of immunotherapy drugs and their complications."

"259. Exp Cell Res. 2018 Aug 1;369(1):1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.05.009. Epub 2018 May 31.","Antigenic targets of CAR T Cell Therapy. A retrospective view on clinical trials.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is anticipated to be increasingly  implemented in the context of cancer treatment after two current FDA approval of  anti-CD19 CAR-T cells (Kymriah™ & Yescarta™). The success of CD19 is mainly attributable to the proper selection of the antigen, CD19, as the target of the disease, highlighting the importance of target selection for other CAR therapies. Therefore, here we performed a global analysis of targets that are the prime focus for various CAR T cell therapies in human clinical trials."

"260. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Aug;18(8):905-910. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1499722. Epub 2018 Jul 20.","Recent developments with immunotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma.","INTRODUCTION: Immunotherapy is on the way to become the new standard of care for  advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) worldwide. With higher rates of objective responses, and overall less side effects compared to tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) immunotherapeutics will probably replace sorafenib from standard first-line treatment. AREAS COVERED: This review covers recent clinical data on systemic agents and ongoing trials in patients with advanced HCC focusing on immunotherapy. EXPERT OPINION: In unselected patients with advanced HCC immunotherapeutics, namely the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) antibodies, nivolumab and pembrolizumab have shown promising efficacy in therapy-naïve, as well as pre-treated patients with advanced HCC. However, only 10-20 percent of treated patients show an objective and durable response to the indicated therapeutics. Therefore, combination therapies including different immunotherapeutics, e.g. PD-1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) antibodies, or combinations of immunotherapeutics and small molecules, or bifunctional antibodies will be needed to improve response rates. ABBREVIATIONS: HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; TKI: tyrosine-kinase inhibitors; PD-1: programmed death receptor-1; PD-L1: programmed cell death 1 ligand 1; CTLA-4: cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated Protein 4; CAR-T: chimeric T cell receptors; TACE: transarterial chemoembolization; SIRT: selective internal radiation therapy; SBRT: stereotactic body radiation therapy; VEGF: vascular endothelial growth factor; MEK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; NK cell: natural killer cell; TGFβ: transforming growth factor-β; OV: Oncolytic viruses; PFU: plaque-forming unit."

"261. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2018 Aug;17(4):301-309. doi: 10.1016/j.hbpd.2018.05.005. Epub 2018 May 24.","Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T-cell therapy for liver cancer.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T-cell (CAR-T) therapy is a newly developed immunotherapy used in the treatment of cancers. Because CAR-T therapy has shown great success in treating CD19-positive hematological malignancies, its application has been explored in the treatment of solid tumors, such as liver cancer. In this review, we discuss the immune characteristics of liver cancer, the obstacles encountered during the application of CAR-T therapy,  and preclinical and clinical progress in the use of CAR-T therapy in patients with liver cancer. DATA SOURCES: The data on CAR-T therapy related to liver cancers were collected by searching PubMed and the Web of Science databases prior to December 2017 with  the keywords chimeric antigen receptor, CAR-T, liver cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and solid tumor. Additional articles were identified by manual search of references found in the primary articles. The data for clinical trials were collected by searching ClinicalTrials.gov. RESULTS: The liver has a tolerogenic nature in the intrahepatic milieu and its tumor microenvironment significantly affects tumor progression. The obstacles that reduce the efficacy of CAR-T therapy in solid tumors include a lack of specific tumor antigens, limited trafficking and penetration of CAR-T cells to tumor sites, and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To overcome these obstacles, several strategies have emerged. In addition, several strategies have  been developed to manage the side effects of CAR-T, including enhancing the selectivity of CARs and controlling CAR-T activity. To date, no clinical trials of CAR-T therapy against HCC have been completed. However, preclinical studies in vitro and in vivo have shown potent antitumor efficacy. Glypican-3, mucin-1, epithelial cell adhesion molecule, carcinoembryonic antigen, and other targets are currently being studied. CONCLUSIONS: The application of CAR-T therapy for liver cancer is just beginning  to be explored and more research is needed. However, we are optimistic that CAR-T therapy will offer a new approach for the treatment of liver cancers in the future."

"262. Immunotherapy. 2018 Aug;10(11):999-1010. doi: 10.2217/imt-2018-0002.","An overview of cancer immunotherapeutic strategies.","Artificially boosting bodys immune response is one of the most exciting, effective and promising advancements in the treatment of cancers. Cancer immunotherapeutics consist of variety of treatment approaches such as cytokine therapy, adoptive T-cell transfer therapy, and antibodies that stimulate innate and adoptive immune responses. In addition to this, development of HPV vaccine has paved way toward the development of other cancer vaccines. Checkpoint blockade inhibitors, for example, anti-programmed cell death protein 1 and anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy and monoclonal antibodies are emerging as other major breakthroughs that are highly effective against cancer. This review addresses the current status of immunotherapeutic strategies against cancer and provides baseline data for future research."

"263. Immunotherapy. 2018 Aug;10(11):935-949. doi: 10.2217/imt-2018-0012.","Effects of CSF1R-targeted chimeric antigen receptor-modified NK92MI & T cells on  tumor-associated macrophages.","Tumor immunotherapy has shown great progress for the treatment of cancer; however, both endogenous and exogenous T cells are inhibited by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in  the microenvironment play pivotal and complex roles in tumor development and progression. Macrophages are categorized as M1 and M2 types. Relevant studies suggest that M2 TAMs correlate with poor prognosis. Colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) controls the formation, differentiation and function of M2 macrophages, which helps tumors grow, metastasize and secrete immunosuppressive cytokines. The objectives of this study were to establish two types of third-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that could specifically target human CSF1R, and to introduce the CARs into NK92MI cells and normal human peripheral blood T cells through lentiviral transduction to produce CAR-natural killer (NK) and -T cells. We then tested their cytotoxicity against cell lines and peripheral blood monocytes expressing CSF1R. In vitro experiments confirmed that third-generation CARs had good target specificity and cytotoxicity. It was expected that CAR-NK and -T cells could specifically kill M2 TAMs in the tumor microenvironment and remove their inhibitory effect. Therefore, CSF1R-targeting CAR-NK and -T cells could represent a novel cellular immunotherapy strategy in conjunction with other antibody-based drugs and targeted therapeutics."

"265. Leuk Lymphoma. 2018 Aug;59(8):1785-1796. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2017.1387905. Epub 2017 Oct 23.","Axicabtagene ciloleucel, a first-in-class CAR T cell therapy for aggressive NHL.","The development of clinically functional chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is the culmination of multiple advances over the last three decades. Axicabtagene ciloleucel (formerly KTE-C19) is an anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy in  development for patients with refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), including transformed follicular lymphoma (TFL) and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBCL). Axicabtagene ciloleucel is manufactured from patients own peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) during which T cells are engineered to  express a CAR that redirects them to recognize CD19-expressing cells. Clinical trials have demonstrated the feasibility of manufacturing axicabtagene ciloleucel in a centralized facility for use in multicenter clinical trials and have demonstrated potent antitumor activity in patients with refractory DLBCL. Main acute toxicities are cytokine release syndrome and neurologic events. Axicabtagene ciloleucel holds promise for the treatment of patients with CD19-positive malignancies, including refractory DLBCL."

"266. Leuk Res. 2018 Aug;71:106-111. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2018.07.015. Epub 2018 Jul  18.","Quantification of B-cell maturation antigen, a target for novel chimeric antigen  receptor T-cell therapy in Myeloma.","B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) is expressed by normal and malignant plasma cells and is targeted via anti-BCMA chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (BCMA CAR T-cell therapy) in plasma cell myeloma (PCM) patients. Surface BCMA expression is required for CAR T-cell binding and killing. We determined the incidence and intensity of expression of BCMA in bone marrow PCM cells using flow cytometry (FC) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). PCM BCMA expression was assessed by FC in 70 patients and in 43 concurrent specimens by IHC. BCMA expression was detected in 94% of patients. FC could assess BCMA expression in all specimens and expression was quantifiable (QuantiBRITE system, BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) in 89% of cases. Expression was highly variable and could be numerically classified  into dim, moderate or bright levels of expression. In the 43 specimens assessed successfully by both IHC and FC, FC showed higher positivity rate (97%) than IHC  (72%), indicating that FC is more useful than IHC in detection of BCMA (p = 0.002; McNemars test). We conclude that FC is more sensitive than IHC and can be used to objectively quantify BCMA expression by myeloma cells. IHC is primarily useful when there is significant infiltration of the bone marrow by myeloma and is less sensitive with low numbers of myeloma cells. Furthermore, the ability of FC to differentiate between normal and abnormal plasma cells and to quantify BCMA on these cells, makes it a useful and sensitive tool in screening patients for CAR T-cell therapy and for follow-up post therapy."

"267. Mol Ther. 2018 Aug 1;26(8):1896-1905. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.05.018. Epub 2018 Jun 15.","Autologous CD19-Targeted CAR T Cells in Patients with Residual CLL following Initial Purine Analog-Based Therapy.","Patients with residual chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) following initial purine analog-based chemoimmunotherapy exhibit a shorter duration of response and may benefit from novel therapeutic strategies. We and others have previously described the safety and efficacy of autologous T cells modified to express anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) in patients with relapsed or refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and CLL. Here we report the use of CD19-targeted CAR T cells incorporating the intracellular signaling domain of CD28 (19-28z) as a consolidative therapy in 8 patients with residual CLL following first-line chemoimmunotherapy with pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab. Outpatients received low-dose conditioning therapy with cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2), followed by escalating doses of 3 × 106, 1 × 107, or 3 × 107 19-28z CAR T cells/kg. An objective response was observed in 3 of 8 patients (38%), with a clinically complete response lasting more than 28 months observed in two patients. Self-limited fevers were observed post-CAR T cell infusion in 4 patients, contemporaneous with elevations in interleukin-6 (IL-6),  IL-10, IL-2, and TGF-α. None developed severe cytokine release syndrome or neurotoxicity. CAR T cells were detectable post-infusion in 4 patients, with a longest observed persistence of 48 days by qPCR. Further strategies to enhance CAR T cell efficacy in CLL are under investigation."

"270. Pediatr Neurol. 2018 Aug;85:33-42. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2018.05.011. Epub 2018 Jun 2.","Neurological Complications of the Treatment of Pediatric Neoplastic Disorders.","Neurological complications resulting from childhood cancer treatments are common. Treatment for childhood neoplastic disorders is often multimodal and may include  procedures, cranial irradiation, chemotherapy, transplant, and immunotherapy, each of which carries distinct neurological risks. Procedures, such as lumbar punctures, are commonly used in this population for diagnostic purposes as well as intrathecal medication administration. Surgery is associated with an array of  potential neurological complications, with posterior fossa syndrome being a common cause of morbidity in pediatric brain tumor patients after neurosurgical resection. Cranial irradiation can cause late neurological sequelae such as stroke, cerebral vasculopathy, secondary malignancy, and cognitive dysfunction. Neurotoxic effects of chemotherapeutic agents are common and include neuropathy,  coagulopathy causing stroke or cerebral sinovenous thrombosis, encephalopathy, seizures, cerebellar dysfunction, myelopathy, and neuropsychologic difficulties.  Hematopoietic stem cell transplant has a high risk of neurological complications  including central nervous system infection, seizures, and stroke. Immunotherapies, including chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cells (CAR T-cells) and immune checkpoint inhibitors, are emerging as potentially effective  strategies to treat some types of childhood cancer, but may carry with them substantial neurotoxicity which is just beginning to be recognized and studied. With evolving treatment protocols, childhood cancer survivorship is increasing, and the role of the neurologist in managing both the acute and chronic neurological consequences of treatment is becoming more important. Prevention, early recognition, and treatment of therapy-associated neurotoxicity are imperative to ensuring children can remain on the most effective therapeutic regimens and to improve the neurological function and quality of life of childhood cancer survivors."

"271. SLAS Technol. 2018 Aug;23(4):338-351. doi: 10.1177/2472630317751214. Epub 2018 Jan 23.","Deterministic Lateral Displacement: The Next-Generation CAR T-Cell Processing?","Reliable cell recovery and expansion are fundamental to the successful scale-up of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells or any therapeutic cell-manufacturing  process. Here, we extend our previous work in whole blood by manufacturing a highly parallel deterministic lateral displacement (DLD) device incorporating diamond microposts and moving into processing, for the first time, apheresis blood products. This study demonstrates key metrics of cell recovery (80%) and platelet depletion (87%), and it shows that DLD T-cell preparations have high conversion to the T-central memory phenotype and expand well in culture, resulting in twofold greater central memory cells compared to Ficoll-Hypaque (Ficoll) and direct magnetic approaches. In addition, all samples processed by DLD converted to a majority T-central memory phenotype and did so with less variation, in stark contrast to Ficoll and direct magnetic prepared samples, which had partial conversion among all donors (<50%). This initial comparison of  T-cell function infers that cells prepared via DLD may have a desirable bias, generating significant potential benefits for downstream cell processing. DLD processing provides a path to develop a simple closed system that can be automated while simultaneously addressing multiple steps when there is potential  for human error, microbial contamination, and other current technical challenges  associated with the manufacture of therapeutic cells."

"272. Trends Cancer. 2018 Aug;4(8):567-582. doi: 10.1016/j.trecan.2018.05.005. Epub 2018 Jun 27.","Seeking Convergence and Cure with New Myeloma Therapies.","For over a decade, the mainstay of multiple myeloma therapy has been small molecules that directly attack malignant plasma cell biology. However, potent immunotherapies have recently emerged, transforming the myeloma therapeutic landscape. Here we first review new promising strategies to target plasma cells through protein homeostasis and epigenetic modulators. We then discuss emerging immunotherapy strategies that are leading to dramatic results in patients. Finally, we focus on recent preclinical data suggesting that enforcing cell-surface antigen expression through small molecules may enhance immunotherapy efficacy and avoid resistance. We argue that these emerging observations point the way toward potential convergence between drug classes. With recent rapid progress we may finally be on the verge of the C word: a cure for myeloma."

"273. Front Immunol. 2018 Jul 31;9:1717. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01717. eCollection 2018.","Immune Cell Hacking: Challenges and Clinical Approaches to Create Smarter Generations of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells.","T cells equipped with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T cells) have recently provided promising advances as a novel immunotherapeutic approach for cancer treatment. CAR T cell therapy has shown stunning results especially in B-cell malignancies; however, it has shown less success against solid tumors, which is more supposed to be related to the specific characteristics of the tumor microenvironment. In this review, we discuss the structure of the CAR, current clinical advantages from finished and ongoing trials, adverse effects, challenges and controversies, new engineering methods of CAR, and clinical considerations that are associated with CAR T cell therapy both in hematological malignancies and solid tumors. Also, we provide a comprehensive description of recently introduced modifications for designing smarter models of CAR T cells. Specific hurdles and problems that limit the optimal function of CAR T cells, especially on solid tumors, and possible solutions according to new modifications and generations of CAR T cells have been introduced here. We also provide information of the future directions on how to enhance engineering the next smarter generations of CAR T cells in order to decrease the adverse effects and increase  the potency and efficacy of CAR T cells against cancer."

"274. Bioeng Transl Med. 2018 Jul 27;3(2):75-86. doi: 10.1002/btm2.10097. eCollection 2018 May.","TGF-β-responsive CAR-T cells promote anti-tumor immune function.","A chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that responds to transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) enables the engineering of T cells that convert this immunosuppressive cytokine into a potent T-cell stimulant. However, clinical translation of TGF-β CAR-T cells for cancer therapy requires the ability to productively combine TGF-β responsiveness with tumor-targeting specificity. Furthermore, the potential concern that contaminating, TGF-β?producing regulatory T (Treg) cells may preferentially expand during TGF-β CAR-T cell manufacturing and suppress effector T (Teff) cells demands careful evaluation. Here, we demonstrate that TGF-β CAR-T cells significantly improve the anti-tumor efficacy  of neighboring cytotoxic T cells. Furthermore, the introduction of TGF-β CARs into mixed T-cell populations does not result in the preferential expansion of Treg cells, nor do TGF-β CAR-Treg cells cause CAR-mediated suppression of Teff cells. These results support the utility of incorporating TGF-β CARs in the development of adoptive T-cell therapy for cancer."

"275. Front Microbiol. 2018 Jul 25;9:1612. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.01612. eCollection 2018.","Immunomodulation as Therapy for Fungal Infection: Are We Closer?","Invasive fungal disease (IFD) causes significant morbidity in immunocompromised patients due to their weakened immune system. Immunomodulatory therapy, in synergy with existing antifungal therapy, is an attractive option to enhance their immune system and aid clearance of these opportunistic pathogens. From a scientific and clinical perspective, we explore the immunotherapeutic options to  augment standard antifungal drugs for patients with an IFD. We discuss the range  of immunomodulatory therapies being considered in IFD - from cytokines, including G-CSF, GM-CSF, M-CSF, IFN-γ, and cytokine agonists, to cellular therapies, consisting of granulocyte transfusion, adoptive T-cell, CAR T-cell, natural killer cell therapies, and monoclonal antibodies. Adjunct pharmaceutical agents which augment the immunity are also being considered. Lastly, we explore the likelihood of the use of probiotics and manipulation of the microbiome/mycobiome  to enhance IFD treatment outcomes."

"277. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2018 Jul 23;40(7):490-492. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2018.07.002.","[Prospect for chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cell immunotherapy for solid tumors].","Chimeric antigen receptor modified T cell (CAR T) cytotherapy is a modified technology of T cell immunotherapy. It has achieved encouraging breakthroughs in  the treatment of hematological malignancies. Recent studies had shown that CAR T  cells can also be used in the treatment of solid tumors. However, its indispensable to understand its bottlenecks, including regulating CAR T cell expansion, survival time, metastasis, and prognosis in vivo, to establish a feasible and effective CART-based solid tumor therapy model. Therefore, we summarized the advances, challenges and possible solutions for CAR T therapy to treat solid tumors, and then prospected in the future clinical treatment."

"278. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jul 21;37(1):163. doi: 10.1186/s13046-018-0817-0.","The expansion of targetable biomarkers for CAR T cell therapy.","Biomarkers are an integral part of cancer management due to their use in risk assessment, screening, differential diagnosis, prognosis, prediction of response  to treatment, and monitoring progress of disease. Recently, with the advent of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, a new category of targetable biomarkers has emerged. These biomarkers are associated with the surface of malignant cells and serve as targets for directing cytotoxic T cells. The first biomarker target used for CAR T cell therapy was CD19, a B cell marker expressed  highly on malignant B cells. With the success of CD19, the last decade has shown  an explosion of new targetable biomarkers on a range of human malignancies. These surface targets have made it possible to provide directed, specific therapy that  reduces healthy tissue destruction and preserves the patients immune system during treatment. As of May 2018, there are over 100 clinical trials underway that target over 25 different surface biomarkers in almost every human tissue. This expansion has led to not only promising results in terms of patient outcome, but has also led to an exponential growth in the investigation of new biomarkers  that could potentially be utilized in CAR T cell therapy for treating patients. In this review, we discuss the biomarkers currently under investigation and point out several promising biomarkers in the preclinical stage of development that may be useful as targets."

"279. Biosci Trends. 2018 Jul 17;12(3):298-308. doi: 10.5582/bst.2018.01048. Epub 2018  Jun 14.","Bi-specific ligand-controlled chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for non-small cell lung cancer.","Our goal is to develop a switch-controlled approach to enable better control of reactivity and safety of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T therapy for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Lentiviral transduction was performed to generate anti-FITC CAR-T cells and target cells stably expressing either isoform  of the folate receptor. Colorimetric-based cytotoxic assay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and multiparametric flow cytometry analysis were used to evaluate the specificity and activity of CAR-T cells in vitro. Human primary T cells stably expressing the fully human anti-FITC CAR were generated. Anti-FITC CAR-T cells displayed antigen-specific and folate-FTIC dependent reactivity against engineered A549-FRα and THP-1-FRβ. The selective activation and proliferation of anti-FITC CAR-T cells in vitro stringently relied on the co-existence of folate-FITC and FR- expressing target cells and was dose-titratable with the folate-FITC switch. The excellent in vitro efficacy and  specificity of an adaptor-controlled CAR-T therapy to target both tumor cells and tumor-associated macrophages in NSCLCs were validated."

"280. Cancer Res. 2018 Jul 15;78(14):3888-3898. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-3973. Epub 2018 May 16.","In Vitro Priming of Adoptively Transferred T Cells with a RORγ Agonist Confers Durable Memory and Stemness In Vivo.","Adoptive T-cell transfer therapy is an FDA- approved treatment for leukemia that  relies on the ex vivo expansion and reinfusion of a patients immune cells, which can be engineered with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) for more efficient tumor recognition. Type 17 T cells, controlled transcriptionally by RORγ, have been reported to mediate potent antitumor effects superior to those observed with conventionally expanded T cells. Here, we demonstrate that addition of a synthetic, small-molecule RORγ agonist during ex vivo expansion potentiates the antitumor activity of human Th17 and Tc17 cells redirected with a CAR. Likewise,  ex vivo use of this agonist bolstered the antitumor properties of murine tumor-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Expansion in the presence of the RORγ agonist enhanced IL17A production without compromising IFNγ secretion in vitroIn  vivo, cytokine neutralization studies revealed that IFNγ and IL17A were required  to regress murine melanoma tumors. The enhanced antitumor effect of RORγ agonist  treatment was associated with recovery of more donor T cells in the tumor and spleen; these cells produced elevated levels of cytokines months after infusion and expressed markers of long-lived stem and central memory cells such as Tcf7 and CD62L. Conversely, untreated cells mainly exhibited effector phenotypes in the tumor. Cured mice previously treated with agonist-primed T cells were protected from tumor rechallenge. Collectively, our work reveals that in vitro treatment with a RORγ agonist generates potent antitumor Type 17 effector cells that persist as long-lived memory cells in vivoSignificance: RORγ agonists can be used in vitro during T-cell expansion to enhance the efficacy of adoptive cell therapy (e.g., CAR-T) and to provide long-term protection against tumors.Graphical Abstract: http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/canres/78/14/3888/F1.large.jpg Cancer Res; 78(14); 3888-98. ©2018 AACR."

"281. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Jul 13;6(1):71. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0385-z.","CART cells are prone to Fas- and DR5-mediated cell death."," Adoptive transfer of T cells transduced with Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CAR) are now FDA-approved for the treatment of B-cell malignancies. Yet, the functionality of the endogenous TCR in CART cells has not been fully assessed. Here, we demonstrate that CART cells progressively upregulate Fas, FasL, DR5 and TRAIL, which result in their programmed cell death, independently of antigen-mediated TCR or CAR activation. CART cell apoptosis occurs even when the CAR contains a single (co-)activatory domain such as CD3ζ, CD28 or 4-1BB. Importantly, the dominant role of the Fas and DR5 pathways in CART cell apoptosis is demonstrated  by the significant rescue of CART cells upon in vivo blockade by combined Fas-Fc  and DR5-Fc recombinant proteins. These observations are of crucial importance for the long-term persistence of CART cells and for the development of new applications including the combined TCR and CAR activation against solid tumors."

"282. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Jul 6;11(1):92. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0635-z.","Control of triple-negative breast cancer using ex vivo self-enriched, costimulated NKG2D CAR T cells.","BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive disease that currently lacks effective targeted therapy. NKG2D ligands (NKG2DLs) are expressed on various tumor types and immunosuppressive cells within tumor microenvironments, providing suitable targets for cancer therapy. METHODS: We applied a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) approach for the targeting  of NKG2DLs expressed on human TNBCs. Lentiviral vectors were used to express the  extracellular domain of human NKG2D that binds various NKG2DLs, fused to signaling domains derived from T cell receptor CD3 zeta alone or with CD27 or 4-1BB (CD137) costimulatory domain. RESULTS: Interleukin-2 (IL-2) promoted the expansion and self-enrichment of NKG2D-redirected CAR T cells in vitro. High CD25 expression on first-generation NKG2D CAR T cells was essential for the self-enrichment effect in the presence of IL-2, but not for CARs containing CD27 or 4-1BB domains. Importantly, self-enriched NKG2D CAR T cells effectively recognized and eliminated TNBC cell lines in vitro, and adoptive transfer of T cells expressing NKG2D CARs with CD27  or 4-1BB specifically enhanced NKG2D CAR surface expression, T cell persistence,  and the regression of established MDA-MB-231 TNBC in vivo. NKG2D-z CAR T cells lacking costimulatory domains were less effective, highlighting the need for costimulatory signals. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that CD27 or 4-1BB costimulated, self-enriched NKG2D CAR-redirected T cells mediate anti-tumor activity against TNBC tumor, which represent a promising immunotherapeutic approach to TNBC treatment."

"283. Mol Ther. 2018 Jul 5;26(7):1855-1866. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.05.003. Epub 2018 May 8.","Dominant-Negative TGF-β Receptor Enhances PSMA-Targeted Human CAR T Cell Proliferation And Augments Prostate Cancer Eradication.","Cancer has an impressive ability to evolve multiple processes to evade therapies. While immunotherapies and vaccines have shown great promise, particularly in certain solid tumors such as prostate cancer, they have been met with resistance  from tumors that use a multitude of mechanisms of immunosuppression to limit effectiveness. Prostate cancer, in particular, secretes transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) as a means to inhibit immunity while allowing for cancer progression. Blocking TGF-β signaling in T cells increases their ability to infiltrate, proliferate, and mediate antitumor responses in prostate cancer models. We tested whether the potency of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells  directed to prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) could be enhanced by the co-expression of a dominant-negative TGF-βRII (dnTGF-βRII). Upon expression of the dominant-negative TGF-βRII in CAR T cells, we observed increased proliferation of these lymphocytes, enhanced cytokine secretion, resistance to exhaustion, long-term in vivo persistence, and the induction of tumor eradication in aggressive human prostate cancer mouse models. Based on our observations, we initiated a phase I clinical trial to assess these CAR T cells as a novel approach for patients with relapsed and refractory metastatic prostate cancer (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03089203)."

"284. PLoS One. 2018 Jul 5;13(7):e0199414. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199414. eCollection 2018.","Development of third generation anti-EGFRvIII chimeric T cells and EGFRvIII-expressing artificial antigen presenting cells for adoptive cell therapy for glioma.","Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive and deadly form of adult brain cancer. Despite of many attempts to identify potential therapies for this disease, including promising cancer immunotherapy approaches, it remains incurable. To address the need of improved persistence, expansion, and optimal antitumor activity of T-cells in the glioma milieu, we have developed an EGFRvIII-specific third generation (G3-EGFRvIII) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)  that expresses both co-stimulatory factors CD28 and OX40 (MR1-CD8TM-CD28-OX40-CD3ζ). To enhance ex vivo target specific activation and optimize T-cell culturing conditions, we generated artificial antigen presenting  cell lines (aAPC) expressing the extracellular and transmembrane domain of EGFRvIII (EGFRVIIIΔ654) with costimulatory molecules including CD32, CD80 and 4-1BBL (EGFRVIIIΔ654 aAPC and CD32-80-137L-EGFRVIIIΔ654 aAPC). We demonstrate that the highest cell growth was achieved when G3-EGFRvIII CAR T-cells were cocultured with both co-stimulatory aAPCs and with exposure to EGFRvIII (CD32-80-137L-EGFRVIIIΔ654 aAPCs) in culturing periods of three to six weeks. G3-EGFRvIII CAR T-cells showed an increased level of IFN-γ when cocultured with CD32-80-137L-EGFRVIIIΔ654 aAPCs. Evaluation of G3-EGFRvIII CAR T-cells in an orthotropic human glioma xenograft model demonstrated a prolonged survival of G3-EGFRvIII CAR treated mice compared to control mice. Importantly, we observed survival of G3-EGFRvIII CAR T-cells within the tumor as long as 90 days after implantation in low-dose and single administration, accompanied by a marked tumor stroma demolition. These findings suggest that G3-EGFRvIII CAR cocultured with CD32-80-137L-EGFRVIIIΔ654 aAPCs warrants itself as a potential anti-tumor therapy strategy for glioblastoma."

"285. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Jul 4;11(1):91. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0629-x.","T cell senescence and CAR-T cell exhaustion in hematological malignancies.","T cell senescence has been recognized to play an immunosuppressive role in the aging population and cancer patients. Strategies dedicated to preventing or reversing replicative and premature T cell senescence are required to increase the lifespan of human beings and to reduce the morbidity from cancer. In addition, overcoming the T cell terminal differentiation or senescence from lymphoma and leukemia patients is a promising approach to enhance the effectiveness of adoptive cellular immunotherapy (ACT). Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell and T cell receptor-engineered T (TCR-T) cell therapy highly rely  on functionally active T cells. However, the mechanisms which drive T cell senescence remain unclear and controversial. In this review, we describe recent progress for restoration of T cell homeostasis from age-related senescence as well as recovery of T cell activation in hematological malignancies."

"286. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Jul 3;11(1):90. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0633-1.","Correction to: miR-153 suppresses IDO1 expression and enhances CAR T cell immunotherapy.","Erratum for     J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Apr 23;11(1):58."

"287. Acad Emerg Med. 2018 Jul;25(7):819-827. doi: 10.1111/acem.13443. Epub 2018 May 25.","Immune-related Adverse Events in Cancer Patients.","The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved immune checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells) as immunotherapy strategies for cancer. These therapies cause a wide variety of adverse events, which mimic other disease states and may emerge months after completion of treatment. This is important because ascertaining a past medical history of cancer treatment within  the past year becomes necessary for many presentations. This narrative review summarizes the biology, pathophysiology, and adverse events associated with checkpoint inhibitors and CAR-T cells and provides a rational approach to management. Proper treatment begins with heightened awareness, rapid diagnosis, and discussion with the patients oncologist. Treatment of these adverse effects  requires only corticosteroids, infliximab, tocilizumab, or fluids or vasopressors when clinically indicated."

"288. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2018 Jul;8(4):539-551. doi: 10.1016/j.apsb.2018.03.001. Epub 2018 Apr 5.","The application of CAR-T cell therapy in hematological malignancies: advantages and challenges.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T cell) therapy is a novel adoptive immunotherapy where T lymphocytes are engineered with synthetic receptors known as chimeric antigen receptors (CAR). The CAR-T cell is an effector T cell that recognizes and eliminates specific cancer cells, independent of major histocompatibility complex molecules. The whole procedure of CAR-T cell production is not well understood. The CAR-T cell has been used predominantly in  the treatment of hematological malignancies, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma. Solid tumors including melanoma, breast cancer and sarcoma offer great promise in CAR-T cell research and development. CD19 CAR-T cell is most commonly used, and other targets, including CD20, CD30, CD38 and CD138 are being studied. Although this novel therapy is promising, there are several disadvantages. In this review we discuss the applications of CAR-T cells in different hematological malignancies,  and pave a way for future improvement on the effectiveness and persistence of these adoptive cell therapies."

"289. Am J Hematol. 2018 Jul;93(7):851-858. doi: 10.1002/ajh.25108. Epub 2018 Apr 28.","Potent anti-leukemia activities of humanized CD19-targeted Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells in patients with relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has shown promising results for  relapsed/refractory (R/R) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The immune response induced by murine single-chain variable fragment (scFv) of the CAR may limit CAR-T cell persistence and thus increases the risk of leukemia relapse. In this study, we developed a novel humanized scFv from the murine FMC63 antibody. A total of 18 R/R ALL patients with or without prior murine CD19 CAR-T therapy were treated with humanized CD19-targeted CAR-T cells (hCART19s). After lymphodepletion chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, the patients  received a single dose (1 × 106 /kg) of autologous hCART19s infusion. Among the 14 patients without previous CAR-T therapy, 13 (92.9%) achieved complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) on day 30, whereas 1 of the 3 patients who failed a second murine CAR-T infusion achieved CR after hCART19s infusion. At day 180, the overall and leukemia-free survival rates were  65.8% and 71.4%, respectively. The cumulative incidence of relapse was 22.6%, and the nonrelapse mortality rate was 7.1%. During treatment, 13 patients developed grade 1-2 cytokine release syndrome (CRS), 4 patients developed grade 3-5 CRS, and 1 patient experienced reversible neurotoxicity. These results indicated that  hCART19s could induce remission in patients with R/R B-ALL, especially in patients who received a reinfusion of murine CAR-T."

"290. Blood Rev. 2018 Jul;32(4):312-325. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.02.002. Epub 2018 Feb 15.","Anti-cancer vaccine therapy for hematologic malignancies: An evolving era.","The potential promise of therapeutic vaccination as effective therapy for hematologic malignancies is supported by the observation that allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation is curative for a subset of patients due to the graft-versus-tumor effect mediated by alloreactive lymphocytes. Tumor vaccines are being explored as a therapeutic strategy to re-educate host immunity to recognize and target malignant cells through the activation and expansion of effector cell populations. Via several mechanisms, tumor cells induce T cell dysfunction and senescence, amplifying and maintaining tumor cell immunosuppressive effects, resulting in failure of clinical trials of tumor vaccines and adoptive T cell therapies. The fundamental premise of successful vaccine design involves the introduction of tumor-associated antigens in the context of effective antigen presentation so that tolerance can be reversed and a productive response can be generated. With the increasing understanding of the role of both the tumor and tumor microenvironment in fostering immune tolerance,  vaccine therapy is being explored in the context of immunomodulatory therapies. The most effective strategy may be to use combination therapies such as anti-cancer vaccines with checkpoint blockade to target critical aspects of this  environment in an effort to prevent the re-establishment of tumor tolerance while limiting toxicity associated with autoimmunity."

"295. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Jul;67(7):1053-1066. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2155-7. Epub 2018 Mar 31.","Induction of a central memory and stem cell memory phenotype in functionally active CD4+ and CD8+ CAR T cells produced in an automated good manufacturing practice system for the treatment of CD19+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Relapsed/refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B ALL) remains  a major therapeutic challenge. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are promising treatment options. Central memory T cells (Tcm) and stem cell-like memory T cells (Tscm) are known to promote sustained proliferation and persistence after T-cell therapy, constituting essential preconditions for treatment efficacy. Therefore, we set up a protocol for anti-CD19 CAR T-cell generation aiming at high Tcm/Tscm numbers. 100 ml peripheral blood from pediatric pre-B ALL patients was processed including CD4+/CD8+-separation, T-cell activation with modified anti-CD3/-CD28 reagents and transduction with a 4-1BB-based second generation CAR lentiviral vector. The process was performed on a closed, automated device requiring additional manual/open steps under clean room conditions. The clinical situation of these critically ill and refractory patients with leukemia leads to inconsistent cellular compositions at start of the procedure including high blast counts and low T-cell numbers with exhausted phenotype. Nevertheless, a robust T-cell product was achieved (mean CD4+ = 50%, CD8+ = 39%, transduction = 27%, Tcm = 50%, Tscm = 46%). Strong proliferative potential (up to > 100-fold), specific cytotoxicity and low expression of co-inhibitory molecules were documented. CAR T cells significantly released TH1 cytokines IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-2 upon target-recognition. In conclusion, partly automated GMP-generation of CAR T cells from critically small blood samples was feasible with a new stimulation protocol that leads to high functionality and expansion potential, balanced CD4/CD8 ratios and a conversion to a Tcm/Tscm phenotype."

"296. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Jul;6(7):812-824. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-17-0502. Epub 2018 May 2.","CAR-T Cells Surface-Engineered with Drug-Encapsulated Nanoparticles Can Ameliorate Intratumoral T-cell Hypofunction.","One limiting factor of CAR T-cell therapy for treatment of solid cancers is the suppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), which inactivates the function of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) through the production of immunosuppressive  molecules, such as adenosine. Adenosine inhibits the function of CD4+ and CD8+ T  cells by binding to and activating the A2a adenosine receptor (A2aR) expressed on their surface. This suppression pathway can be blocked using the A2aR-specific small molecule antagonist SCH-58261 (SCH), but its applications have been limited owing to difficulties delivering this drug to immune cells within the TME. To overcome this limitation, we used CAR-engineered T cells as active chaperones to  deliver SCH-loaded cross-linked, multilamellar liposomal vesicles (cMLV) to tumor-infiltrating T cells deep within the immune suppressive TME. Through in vitro and in vivo studies, we have demonstrated that this system can be used to effectively deliver SCH to the TME. This treatment may prevent or rescue the emergence of hypofunctional CAR-T cells within the TME. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(7); 812-24. ©2018 AACR."

"297. Cancer Res. 2018 Jul 1;78(13):3718-3730. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-0306. Epub 2018 May 14.","Nanoparticles That Reshape the Tumor Milieu Create a Therapeutic Window for Effective T-cell Therapy in Solid Malignancies.","A major obstacle to the success rate of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-) T-cell therapy against solid tumors is the microenvironment antagonistic to T cells that solid tumors create. Conventional checkpoint blockade can silence lymphocyte antisurvival pathways activated by tumors, but because they are systemic, these treatments disrupt immune homeostasis and induce autoimmune side effects. Thus, new technologies are required to remodel the tumor milieu without causing systemic toxicities. Here, we demonstrate that targeted nanocarriers that deliver a combination of immune-modulatory agents can remove protumor cell populations and simultaneously stimulate antitumor effector cells. We administered repeated infusions of lipid nanoparticles coated with the tumor-targeting peptide iRGD and loaded with a combination of a PI3K inhibitor to inhibit immune-suppressive tumor cells and an α-GalCer agonist of therapeutic T cells to synergistically sway the  tumor microenvironment of solid tumors from suppressive to stimulatory. This treatment created a therapeutic window of 2 weeks, enabling tumor-specific CAR-T  cells to home to the lesion, undergo robust expansion, and trigger tumor regression. CAR-T cells administered outside this therapeutic window had no curative effect. The lipid nanoparticles we used are easy to manufacture in substantial amounts, and we demonstrate that repeated infusions of them are safe. Our technology may therefore provide a practical and low-cost strategy to potentiate many cancer immunotherapies used to treat solid tumors, including T-cell therapy, vaccines, and BITE platforms.Significance: A new nanotechnology approach can promote T-cell therapy for solid tumors. Cancer Res; 78(13); 3718-30. ©2018 AACR."

"298. Cell Immunol. 2018 Jul;329:31-40. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2018.04.007. Epub 2018 Apr 30.","Engineered CAR T cells targeting mesothelin by piggyBac transposon system for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.","Patients with pancreatic cancer have a poor prognosis largely due to the poor efficacy of the available treatment modalities. In this study, we engineered mesothelin-targeting chimeric antigen receptor T cells (mesoCAR T) using the piggyBac transposon based plasmid electroporation technique for specific targeting of pancreatic cancer cells expressing mesothelin. In vitro, mesoCAR T cells exhibited rapid and robust killing effect against ASPC1 cells with high expression levels of mesothelin with high production of IFN-γ; the cytotoxic effect on PANC1 cells with low expressions of mesothelin was relatively attenuated. In the ASPC1 xenograft mice model, mesoCAR T cells significantly suppressed the tumor growth accompanied with higher-level IFN-γ secretion as compared to control T cells. Besides, more mesoCAR T cells differentiated into memory T cells after tumor remission, whilst causing minimal lesions in major organs. Our study suggests promising efficacy of piggyBac transposon-based mesoCAR T cell therapy for pancreatic cancer, which is a potential candidate for  clinical translation."

"299. Cytotherapy. 2018 Jul;20(7):952-963. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.05.001. Epub 2018 Jun 29.","Manufacturing development and clinical production of NKG2D chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cells for autologous adoptive cell therapy.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Adoptive cell therapy employing natural killer group 2D (NKG2D)  chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells has demonstrated preclinical efficacy in several model systems, including hematological and solid tumors. We present comprehensive data on manufacturing development and clinical production of autologous NKG2D CAR T cells for treatment of acute myeloid leukemia and multiple myeloma (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02203825). An NKG2D CAR was generated by fusing native full-length human NKG2D to the human CD3ζ cytoplasmic  signaling domain. NKG2D naturally associates with native costimulatory molecule DAP10, effectively generating a second-generation CAR against multiple ligands upregulated during malignant transformation including MIC-A, MIC-B and the UL-16  binding proteins. METHODS: CAR T cells were infused fresh after a 9-day process wherein OKT3-activated T cells were genetically modified with replication-defective gamma-retroviral vector and expanded ex vivo for 5 days with recombinant human interleukin-2. RESULTS: Despite sizable interpatient variation in originally collected cells, release criteria, including T-cell expansion and purity (median 98%), T-cell transduction (median 66% CD8+ T cells), and functional activity against NKG2D ligand-positive cells, were met for 100% of healthy donors and patients enrolled  and collected. There was minimal carryover of non-T cells, particularly malignant cells; both effector memory and central memory cells were generated, and inflammatory cytokines such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, RANTES, interferon-γ and tumor necrosis factor-α were selectively up-regulated. CONCLUSIONS: The process resulted in production of required cell doses for the first-in-human phase I NKG2D CAR T clinical trial and provides a robust, flexible base for further optimization of NKG2D CAR T-cell manufacturing."

"300. Exp Dermatol. 2018 Jul;27(7):769-778. doi: 10.1111/exd.13678.","The siRNA-mediated downregulation of PD-1 alone or simultaneously with CTLA-4 shows enhanced in vitro CAR-T-cell functionality for further clinical development towards the potential use in immunotherapy of melanoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells have been used successfully for cancer immunotherapy. While substantial tumor regression was observed in leukaemia and lymphoma, CAR therapy of solid tumors needs further improvement. A major obstacle to the efficiency of engineered T cells is posed by triggering of inhibitory receptors, for example programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), leading to an impaired antitumor activity. To boost CAR-T-cell function, we co-electroporated T cells with both, mRNA encoding a CAR specific for chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4) and  small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) to downregulate PD-1 (siPD-1) and CTLA-4 (siCTLA-4). Flow cytometry revealed that activation-induced upregulation of both  PD-1 and CTLA-4 was suppressed when compared to CAR-T cells electroporated with negative control siRNA. The siRNA transfection showed no influence on CAR expression of engineered T cells. Functionality assays were performed using PD-L1- and CD80-transfected melanoma cells endogenously expressing CSPG4. CAR-T cells transfected with siPD-1 alone showed improvement in cytokine secretion. Additionally, CAR-T cells transfected with either siPD-1 alone or together with siCTLA-4 exhibited a significantly increased cytotoxicity. No or only little effects were observed when CAR-T cells were co-transfected with siCTLA-4 only. Taken together, it is feasible to optimize CAR-T cells by co-transfection of CAR-encoding mRNA and siRNAs to downregulate inhibitory receptors. Our in vitro data indicate an improvement of the functionality of these CAR-T cells, suggesting that this strategy could represent a novel method to enhance CAR-T-cell immunotherapy of cancer."

"302. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2018 Jul;27(7):601-611. doi: 10.1080/13543784.2018.1492549. Epub 2018 Jul 5.","CD19-targeted immunotherapies for treatment of patients with non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas.","INTRODUCTION: Ubiquitous expression of CD19 on B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma identified it as a potential target for immune-based therapies. AREAS COVERED: This article reviews the current literature on anti-CD19 therapies currently in clinical trials including monoclonal antibodies (mAb), antibody targeted cytotoxic drug conjugates (ADC), bispecific antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells. EXPERT OPINION: Naked anti-CD19 mAbs have shown little clinical benefit in B cell lymphomas. Despite unusual toxicity profiles with many anti-CD19 ADCs slowing development, durable remissions in a substantial minority of patients with refractory aggressive lymphomas should encourage continued efforts in this area.  Blinatumomab, an anti-CD19 bispecific T cell engager, has shown impressive responses in relapse/refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), but is plagued by neurotoxicity issues and the need for continuous infusion. CD19 targeting CAR-T cell therapies are the most promising, with the potential for curing a third of refractory DLBCL patients. There is still much work to be done  to address potentially life-threatening cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, an extended production time precluding patients with rapidly progressive disease, and treatment expense. However, if the promise of CAR-T cell technology is confirmed, this will likely change the approach and prognosis for relapse/refractory aggressive lymphoma."

"303. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2018 Jul;28(7):573-590. doi: 10.1080/13543776.2018.1494155. Epub 2018 Jul 9.","Emerging patents in the therapeutic areas of glioma and glioblastoma.","INTRODUCTION: Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and aggressive malignant glioma, with patients having a median survival of just over one year. Current chemotherapies, with surgery and radiotherapy, provide only minor patient benefit. There is a great need to discover and develop novel therapies for this devastating disease. Areas covered: Expert opinion: AREAS COVERED: The patent literature reveals novel therapies, providing insights  into emerging GBM therapeutics. We have used the Google and USPTO patent databases to generate a detailed landscape of patents and patent applications from companies active in the areas of glioma and/or GBM. Specific patents have been grouped into six areas: novel compounds; treatments and therapeutic targets; combination therapies; immunotherapies; delivery methods; and biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis. EXPERT OPINION: There has been a steady increase in the number of patents on GBM  over the last five years. Despite many new compounds being developed and patented for a broad range of cancers, only a small percentage of these are specifically targeted to GBM. Notable trends in the patent literature include both the development of combination therapies to combat the heterogeneous nature of GBM, and the use of immunotherapies building on the promise of cancer vaccines and CAR T-cell therapy."

"308. Leukemia. 2018 Jul;32(7):1529-1541. doi: 10.1038/s41375-018-0106-0. Epub 2018 Mar 22.","Clinical use of lentiviral vectors.","Viral vectors provide an efficient means for modification of eukaryotic cells, and their use is now commonplace in academic laboratories and industry for both research and clinical gene therapy applications. Lentiviral vectors, derived from the human immunodeficiency virus, have been extensively investigated and optimized over the past two decades. Third-generation, self-inactivating lentiviral vectors have recently been used in multiple clinical trials to introduce genes into hematopoietic stem cells to correct primary immunodeficiencies and hemoglobinopathies. These vectors have also been used to introduce genes into mature T cells to generate immunity to cancer through the delivery of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) or cloned T-cell receptors. CAR T-cell therapies engineered using lentiviral vectors have demonstrated noteworthy clinical success in patients with B-cell malignancies leading to regulatory approval of the first genetically engineered cellular therapy using lentiviral vectors. In this review, we discuss several aspects of lentiviral vectors that will be of interest to clinicians, including an overview of lentiviral vector development, the current uses of viral vectors as therapy for primary immunodeficiencies and cancers, large-scale manufacturing of lentiviral vectors,  and long-term follow-up of patients treated with gene therapy products."

"310. Oncogene. 2018 Jul;37(27):3686-3697. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0187-2. Epub 2018 Apr 6.","Antitumor activity of CD56-chimeric antigen receptor T cells in neuroblastoma and SCLC models.","The CD56 antigen (NCAM-1) is highly expressed on several malignancies with neuronal or neuroendocrine differentiation, including small-cell lung cancer and  neuroblastoma, tumor types for which new therapeutic options are needed. We hypothesized that CD56-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells could target and eliminate CD56-positive malignancies. Sleeping Beauty transposon-generated CD56R-CAR T cells exhibited αβT-cell receptors, released antitumor cytokines upon co-culture with CD56+ tumor targets, demonstrated a lack of fratricide, and expression of cytolytic function in the presence of CD56+ stimulation. The CD56R-CAR+ T cells are capable of killing CD56+ neuroblastoma, glioma, and SCLC tumor cells in in vitro co-cultures and when tested against CD56+ human xenograft neuroblastoma models and SCLC models, CD56R-CAR+ T cells were able to inhibit tumor growth in vivo. These results indicate that CD56-CARs  merit further investigation as a potential treatment for CD56+ malignancies."

"311. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Jun 18;6(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0360-8.","Targeting adenosine for cancer immunotherapy.","Immune checkpoint antagonists (CTLA-4 and PD-1/PD-L1) and CAR T-cell therapies generate unparalleled durable responses in several cancers and have firmly established immunotherapy as a new pillar of cancer therapy. To extend the impact of immunotherapy to more patients and a broader range of cancers, targeting additional mechanisms of tumor immune evasion will be critical. Adenosine signaling has emerged as a key metabolic pathway that regulates tumor immunity. Adenosine is an immunosuppressive metabolite produced at high levels within the tumor microenvironment. Hypoxia, high cell turnover, and expression of CD39 and CD73 are important factors in adenosine production. Adenosine signaling through the A2a receptor expressed on immune cells potently dampens immune responses in inflamed tissues. In this article, we will describe the role of adenosine signaling in regulating tumor immunity, highlighting potential therapeutic targets in the pathway. We will also review preclinical data for each target and  provide an update of current clinical activity within the field. Together, current data suggest that rational combination immunotherapy strategies that incorporate inhibitors of the hypoxia-CD39-CD73-A2aR pathway have great promise for further improving clinical outcomes in cancer patients."

"315. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 15;24(12):2920-2934. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1365. Epub 2018 Feb 1.","T-cell Homing Therapy for Reducing Regulatory T Cells and Preserving Effector T-cell Function in Large Solid Tumors.","Purpose: Infused autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and tumor-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells typically surround malignant lesions or penetrate small tumor nodules but fail to penetrate large solid tumors, significantly compromising their antitumor impact. Strategies to overcome this primary challenge are largely required.Experimental Design: We tested the effects of IL12 plus doxorubicin on T-cell penetration and efficacy in solid tumors in a murine lung cancer model, a murine breast carcinoma lung metastasis model, and two human xenograft tumor models bearing large tumors (>10  mm).Results: Intriguingly, this simple approach increased the numbers, the distribution, and the depth of penetration of infused CD8+ T cells in these tumors, including both TILs and CAR T cells. This combined treatment halted tumor progression and significantly extended survival time. Studies of the underlying mechanism revealed multiple effects. First, the combined treatment maintained the high ratios of immune-stimulatory receptors to immune-inhibitory receptors on infiltrated CD8+ T cells, reduced the accumulation of immunosuppressive regulatory T cells, and enhanced the numbers of T-bet+ effector T cells in the tumors. Second, doxorubicin induced chemokines CXCL9 and CXCL10, which may attract NKG2D+CD8+ T cells to tumors, and this effect was boosted by IL12-induced IFNγ accumulation in tumors, promoting the penetration of NKG2D+CD8+ T cells.Conclusions: The deep penetration of infused T cells associated with combined IL12 plus doxorubicin yielded striking therapeutic effects in murine and human xenograft solid tumors. This approach might broaden the application of T-cell therapy to a wider range of solid tumors. Clin Cancer Res; 24(12); 2920-34. ©2018 AACRSee related commentary by Berraondo et al., p. 2716."

"316. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Jun 15;6(1):56. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0343-9.","Cytokine release syndrome.","During the last decade the field of cancer immunotherapy has witnessed impressive progress. Highly effective immunotherapies such as immune checkpoint inhibition,  and T-cell engaging therapies like bispecific T-cell engaging (BiTE) single-chain antibody constructs and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown remarkable efficacy in clinical trials and some of these agents have already received regulatory approval. However, along with growing experience in the clinical application of these potent immunotherapeutic agents comes the increasing awareness of their inherent and potentially fatal adverse effects, most notably the cytokine release syndrome (CRS). This review provides a comprehensive overview of the mechanisms underlying CRS pathophysiology, risk factors, clinical presentation, differential diagnoses, and prognostic factors. In addition, based on the current evidence we give practical guidance to the management of the cytokine release syndrome."

"317. Blood. 2018 Jun 14;131(24):2621-2629. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-01-785840. Epub 2018 May 4.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells: CD19 and the road beyond.","The ability to harness a patients immune system to target malignant cells is now transforming the treatment of many cancers, including hematologic malignancies. The adoptive transfer of T cells selected for tumor reactivity or engineered with natural or synthetic receptors has emerged as an effective modality, even for patients with tumors that are refractory to conventional therapies. The most notable example of adoptive cell therapy is with T cells engineered to express synthetic chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that reprogram their specificity to target CD19. CAR T cells have shown remarkable antitumor activity in patients with refractory B-cell malignancies. Ongoing research is focused on understanding the mechanisms of incomplete tumor elimination, reducing toxicities, preventing antigen escape, and identifying suitable targets and strategies based on established and emerging principles of synthetic biology for extending this approach to other hematologic malignancies. This review will discuss the current  status, challenges, and potential future applications of CAR T-cell therapy in hematologic malignancies."

"318. Cancers (Basel). 2018 Jun 14;10(6). pii: E200. doi: 10.3390/cancers10060200.","Overcoming Resistance of Human Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma to CD19-CAR CTL Therapy by  Celecoxib and Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors.","Patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin&rsquo;s lymphoma (B-NHL) who fail to respond to  first-line treatment regimens or develop resistance, exhibit poor prognosis. This signifies the need to develop alternative treatment strategies. CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-redirected immunotherapy is an attractive and novel option, which has shown encouraging outcomes in phase I clinical trials of relapsed/refractory NHL. However, the underlying mechanisms of, and approaches to overcome, acquired anti-CD19CAR CD8⁺ T cells (CTL)-resistance in NHL remain elusive. CD19CAR transduced primary human CTLs kill CD19⁺ human NHLs in a CD19- and caspase-dependent manner, mainly via the tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) apoptotic pathway. To understand the dynamics of the development of resistance, we analyzed several anti-CD19CAR CTL-resistant  NHL sublines (R-NHL) derived by serial exposure of sensitive parental lines to excessive numbers of anti-CD19CAR CTLs followed by a limiting dilution analysis.  The R-NHLs retained surface CD19 expression and were efficiently recognized by CD19CAR CTLs. However, R-NHLs developed cross-resistance to CD19CAR transduced human primary CTLs and the Jurkat human T cell line, activated Jurkat, and lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells, suggesting the acquisition of resistance is independent of CD19-loss and might be due to aberrant apoptotic machinery. We  hypothesize that the R-NHL refractoriness to CD19CAR CTL killing could be partially rescued by small molecule sensitizers with apoptotic-gene regulatory effects. Chromatin modifiers and Celecoxib partially reversed the resistance of R-NHL cells to the cytotoxic effects of anti-CD19CAR CTLs and rhTRAIL. These in vitro results, though they require further examination, may provide a rational biological basis for combination treatment in the management of CD19CAR CTL-based therapy of NHL."

"319. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Jun 14;39(6):454-459. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2018.06.003.","[Efficacy of anti-CD19 CAR-T cell therapy in 10 refractory recurrent B cell malignancies].","Objective: To investigate the outcomes of anti-CD19 CAR-T cell for relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies. Method: Ten patients with relapsed and refractory B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL) and non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL), diagnosed in the Department of Hematology of Peking University third Hospital from December 2015 to July 2017, were treated with anti-CD19 CAR-T cell therapy,  and the efficacy and safety were analyzed. Results: Efficacy was assessed on the  28th day after cell infusion, including 66.7% (4/6) of complete remission (CR) for patients with ALL, 16.7% (1/6) of partial remission (PR), and 83.3% (5/6) of  overall response rate (ORR). For NHL patients, CR was 33.3% (1/3) and most of the lesions disappeared in a patient with mantle cell lymphoma, but residual lesion presented persistent state. After infusion of anti-CD19 CAR-T cells, the main side effect was cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and fever. One patient presented  with aphasia and the other one had multiple organ failure, which were improved after treatment. No patients died of CRS. Conclusion: anti-CD19 CAR-T cell for relapsed and refractory B cells hematological malignancies is safe, and the most  problematic side effect is CRS, which can be controlled by therapy."

"321. Front Immunol. 2018 Jun 8;9:1305. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01305. eCollection 2018.","Gamma Delta T Cell Therapy for Cancer: It Is Good to be Local.","Human gamma delta T cells have extraordinary properties including the capacity for tumor cell killing. The major gamma delta T cell subset in human beings is designated Vγ9Vδ2 and is activated by intermediates of isoprenoid biosynthesis or aminobisphosphonate inhibitors of farnesyldiphosphate synthase. Activated cells are potent for killing a broad range of tumor cells and demonstrated the capacity for tumor reduction in murine xenotransplant tumor models. Translating these findings to the clinic produced promising initial results but greater potency is  needed. Here, we review the literature on gamma delta T cells in cancer therapy with emphasis on the Vγ9Vδ2 T cell subset. Our goal was to examine obstacles preventing effective Vγ9Vδ2 T cell therapy and strategies for overcoming them. We focus on the potential for local activation of Vγ9Vδ2 T cells within the tumor environment to increase potency and achieve objective responses during cancer therapy. The gamma delta T cells and especially the Vγ9Vδ2 T cell subset, have the potential to overcome many problems in cancer therapy especially for tumors with no known treatment, lacking tumor-specific antigens for targeting by antibodies and CAR-T, or unresponsive to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Translation of amazing work from many laboratories studying gamma delta T cells is needed to fulfill the promise of effective and safe cancer immunotherapy."

"324. Mol Ther. 2018 Jun 6;26(6):1447-1456. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.03.016. Epub 2018 Mar 28.","Development and Evaluation of an Optimal Human Single-Chain Variable Fragment-Derived BCMA-Targeted CAR T Cell Vector.","B cell maturation antigen (BCMA) has recently been identified as an important multiple myeloma (MM)-specific target for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell  therapy. In CAR T cell therapy targeting CD19 for lymphoma, host immune anti-murine CAR responses limited the efficacy of repeat dosing and possibly long-term persistence. This clinically relevant concern can be addressed by generating a CAR incorporating a human single-chain variable fragment (scFv). We  screened a human B cell-derived scFv phage display library and identified a panel of BCMA-specific clones from which human CARs were engineered. Despite a narrow range of affinity for BCMA, dramatic differences in CAR T cell expansion were observed between unique scFvs in a repeat antigen stimulation assay. These results were confirmed by screening in a MM xenograft model, where only the top preforming CARs from the repeat antigen stimulation assay eradicated disease and  prolonged survival. The results of this screening identified a highly effective CAR T cell therapy with properties, including rapid in vivo expansion (>10,000-fold, day 6), eradication of large tumor burden, and durable protection  to tumor re-challenge. We generated a bicistronic construct including a second-generation CAR and a truncated-epithelial growth factor receptor marker. CAR T cell vectors stemming from this work are under clinical investigation."

"325. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 6;13(6):e0198347. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0198347. eCollection 2018.","Folate receptor 1 (FOLR1) targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells for the treatment of gastric cancer.","Gastric cancer is a malignancy that has a high mortality rate. Although progress  has been made in the treatment of gastric cancer, many patients experience cancer recurrence and metastasis. Folate receptor 1 (FOLR1) is overexpressed on the cell surface in over one-third of gastric cancer patients, but rarely is expressed in  normal tissue. This makes FOLR1 a potential target for chimeric antigen receptor  (CAR) T cell immunotherapy, although the function of FOLR1 has not been elucidated. CAR are engineered fusion receptor composed of an antigen recognition region and signaling domains. T cells expressing CAR have specific activation and cytotoxic effects against cancer cells containing the target antigen. In this study, we generated a CAR that targets FOLR1 composed of a single-chain variable  fragment (scFv) of FOLR1 antibody and signaling domains consisting of CD28 and CD3ζ. Both FOLR1-CAR KHYG-1, a natural killer cell line, and FOLR1-CAR T cells recognized FOLR1-positive gastric cancer cells in a MHC-independent manner and induced secretion of various cytokines and caused cell death. Conclusively, this  is the first study to demonstrate that CAR KHYG-1/T cells targeting FOLR1 are effective against FOLR1-positive gastric cancer cells."

"326. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Jun 5;6(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0365-3.","Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis with immunotherapy: brief review and case report.","BACKGROUND: Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a rare but potentially fatal syndrome of immune hyperactivation, may be an under-recognized immune-related adverse event (irAE). Unlike other irAEs, HLH triggered by immune  checkpoint blockade is not well described; no particular diagnostic guidelines and treatment regimens exist. The HLH-2004 criteria remain as the common diagnostic guide. For the treatment of HLH, various combinations of chemotherapeutic, immunosuppressive and glucocorticoid agents are used. CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of HLH in a 58-year-old metastatic melanoma patient who was undergoing immune checkpoint blockade with pembrolizumab, a programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) receptor inhibitor. The patient presented with fever, upper normal sized spleen, anemia, thrombocytopenia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperferritinemia, reduced NK cell activity and elevated sCD163 levels, fulfilling the Histiocyte Society HLH-2004 diagnostic criteria. Our patient was successfully treated with oral prednisone (1 mg/kilogram/day), suggesting that HLH from immune checkpoint inhibitors may respond to steroids alone. CONCLUSION: Early diagnosis and treatment of HLH are critical to avoid progressive tissue damage, organ failure and possibly death. HLH should be suspected in clinical presentations with fever, cytopenias and hyperinflammatory  markers. HLH in the setting of immune checkpoint blockade may be treated with steroids only but further evidence is required."

"327. Elife. 2018 Jun 4;7. pii: e36688. doi: 10.7554/eLife.36688.","Chimeric antigen receptors that trigger phagocytosis.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are synthetic receptors that reprogram T cells  to kill cancer. The success of CAR-T cell therapies highlights the promise of programmed immunity and suggests that applying CAR strategies to other immune cell lineages may be beneficial. Here, we engineered a family of Chimeric Antigen Receptors for Phagocytosis (CAR-Ps) that direct macrophages to engulf specific targets, including cancer cells. CAR-Ps consist of an extracellular antibody fragment, which can be modified to direct CAR-P activity towards specific antigens. By screening a panel of engulfment receptor intracellular domains, we found that the cytosolic domains from Megf10 and FcRɣ robustly triggered engulfment independently of their native extracellular domain. We show that CAR-Ps drive specific engulfment of antigen-coated synthetic particles and whole  human cancer cells. Addition of a tandem PI3K recruitment domain increased cancer cell engulfment. Finally, we show that CAR-P expressing murine macrophages reduce cancer cell number in co-culture by over 40%."

"328. Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 1;8(6):1083-1089. eCollection 2018.","First-in-man clinical trial of CAR NK-92 cells: safety test of CD33-CAR NK-92 cells in patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia."," CAR T cells have shown clinical efficacy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, but this therapy has not been effective for acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and other treatment options are needed. Theoretically, CAR-NK cells have a more favorable toxicity profile compared to CAR T cells, especially in avoiding adverse effects  such as cytokine release syndrome. However, the clinical evidence for this has not yet been reported. In the current study, we tested the safety of CD33-CAR NK  cells in patients with relapsed and refractory AML. At doses up to 5 × 109 (5 billion) cells per patient, no significant adverse effects were observed. CAR NK-92 cells can be produced at much lower cost compared to CAR T cells, and we believe after being optimized, they will be widely accessible for the treatment of cancer."

"329. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Jun;31(2):176-183. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.03.003. Epub 2018 Mar 27.","Advances in the use of natural receptor- or ligand-based chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) in haematologic malignancies.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CAR)-T cell therapy has recently made promising advances towards treatment of B-cell malignancies. This approach makes use of an  antibody-derived single chain variable fragment (scFv)-based CAR to target the CD19 antigen. Currently scFvs are the most common strategy for creation of CARs,  but tumor cells can also be targeted using non-antibody based approaches with designs focused on the interaction between natural receptors and their ligands. This emerging strategy has been used in unique ways to target multiple tumor types, including solid and haematological malignancies. In this review, we will highlight the performance of receptor-ligand combinations as designs for CARs to  treat cancer, with a particular focus on haematologic malignancies."

"330. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Jun;31(2):166-175. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.03.001. Epub 2018 Mar 28.","Off the shelf T cell therapies for hematologic malignancies.","Adoptive transfer of autologous CAR-T cells can induce durable remissions in patients with relapsed/refractory hematologic malignancies. However, multiple challenges exist for manufacturing CAR-T cells from patients with advanced disease including inability to manufacture a product, disease progression or death while waiting for the CAR-T product to be available, and heterogeneity among autologous CAR-T products that contributes to unpredictable and variable clinical activity. Healthy donor T cells can provide a source for production of universal CAR-T cells when combined with gene editing to prevent expression of endogenous TCRs and avoid generation of GvHD in HLA mismatched recipients. Additional gene edits can be included to impart resistance to immunosuppression or improve trafficking to tumor sites. Recent advances in cell manufacturing and  analytics technology can provide for consistent batch to batch manufacturing of gene edited allogeneic CAR-T cells in sufficient quantity to treat thousands of patients when needed as off the shelf products."

"331. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Jun;31(2):158-165. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.03.004. Epub 2018 Mar 28.","Toxicities associated with immunotherapies for hematologic malignancies.","Immunotherapy has generated tremendous hope for patients with cancer that is refractory to standard approaches. Hematologic malignancies have taken the lead in harnessing the most recent advances in cell-based immunotherapies, such as CAR T cells, and some patients have achieved durable remissions. However, these T-cell-engaging therapies are associated with a new set of toxicities which need  to be managed by caretakers, oncologists, nurses, and healthcare staff. In this review we provide an overview of the toxicity of some of these revolutionary agents including bispecific T cell engagers, checkpoint inhibitors, chimeric antigen receptor T-cells."

"332. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Jun;31(2):135-146. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.04.001. Epub 2018 Apr 11.","CAR T cell therapy for B-cell lymphomas.","B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHLs)is a very heterogonous malignancy with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma (FL) as the most common subtypes. Standard treatment with anti-CD20 based chemoimmunotherapy is usually very effective for disease control. However a significant proportion of patients with high-risk features (double hit lymphoma, transformed lymphomas or early relapses) will become refractory to standard therapies and will have limited alternatives for cure. Adoptive therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells is a new paradigm for effective treatment of poor prognosis lymphomas. Here we review the biology of poor risk DLBCL and FL, the rationale for CAR T-cell therapy in malignant lymphoma and the efficacy/toxicity profile of CD19 directed CAR T cell therapy for DLBCL and FL from early single center studies to multicenter/global clinical trial with different CAR T cell constructs."

"333. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2018 Jun;31(2):117-125. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2018.04.002. Epub 2018 Apr 21.","Pre-clinical development of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell immunotherapy: Implications of design for efficacy and safety.","Following the landmark approvals by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the adoptive transfer of CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor  (CAR) T-cells has now entered mainstream clinical practice for patients with chemotherapy-resistant or refractory B-cell malignancies. These approvals have followed on from a prolonged period of pre-clinical evaluation, informing the design of clinical trials that have demonstrated unprecedented efficacy in this difficult to treat patient population. However, the delivery of autologous CAR-engineered T-cell therapy is complex, costly and not without significant risk. Here we summarize the key themes of CAR T-cell preclinical development and  highlight a number of innovative strategies designed to further address toxicity  and improve efficacy. In concert with the emerging promise of precision genome editing, it is hoped these next generation products will increase the repertoire  of clinical applications of CAR T-cell therapy in malignant and perhaps other disease settings."

"335. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2018 Jun;24(6):1135-1141. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.02.018. Epub 2018 Mar 1.","Building a CAR Garage: Preparing for the Delivery of Commercial CAR T Cell Products at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.","Two commercial chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies for CD19-expressing B cell malignancies, Kymriah and Yescarta, have recently been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The administration of CAR T cells is a complex endeavor involving cell manufacture, tracking and shipping of apheresis products, and management of novel and severe toxicities. At Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, we have identified 8 essential tasks that define the CAR T cell workflow. In this review, we discuss practical aspects of CAR T cell program development, including clinical, administrative, and regulatory challenges for successful implementation."

"337. Cancer Discov. 2018 Jun;8(6):OF5. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-NB2018-057. Epub 2018 Apr 20.","From Pluripotent Stem to CAR T Cells.","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"338. Cancer Discov. 2018 Jun;8(6):750-763. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-17-1368. Epub 2018 Mar 21.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell-Mediated Neurotoxicity in Nonhuman Primates.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy has revolutionized the treatment of refractory leukemias and lymphomas, but is associated with significant toxicities, namely cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity. A major barrier to developing therapeutics to prevent CAR T cell-mediated neurotoxicity is the lack of clinically relevant models. Accordingly, we developed a rhesus macaque (RM) model of neurotoxicity via adoptive transfer of autologous CD20-specific CAR T cells. Following cyclophosphamide lymphodepletion, CD20 CAR T cells expand to 272 to 4,450 cells/μL after 7 to 8 days and elicit CRS and neurotoxicity. Toxicities are associated with elevated serum IL6, IL8, IL1RA, MIG, and I-TAC levels, and disproportionately high cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) IL6, IL2, GM-CSF, and VEGF levels. During neurotoxicity, both CD20 CAR and non-CAR T cells accumulate in the CSF and in the brain parenchyma. This RM model demonstrates that CAR T cell-mediated neurotoxicity is associated with proinflammatory CSF cytokines and a pan-T cell encephalitis.Significance: We provide the first immunologically relevant, nonhuman primate model of B cell-directed CAR T-cell therapy-mediated CRS and neurotoxicity. We demonstrate CAR and non-CAR T-cell infiltration in the CSF and in the brain during neurotoxicity resulting in pan-encephalitis, accompanied by increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the CSF. Cancer Discov; 8(6); 750-63. ©2018 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 663."

"339. Cancer Gene Ther. 2018 Jun;25(5-6):117-128. doi: 10.1038/s41417-018-0012-7. Epub  2018 Mar 7.","T-bet promotes potent antitumor activity of CD4+ CAR T cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy has shown promise against B cell malignancies in the clinic. However, limited success in patients with solid tumors has prompted the development of new CAR strategies. In this study, a B7H6-specific CAR was combined with different variants of T-bet, a transcription  factor that acts as the master regulator to induce a Th1 phenotype in CD4+ T cells, to create more effective CAR T cells. Skewing CD4+ CAR T cells into a Th1  improved CAR T cell functional activity while promoting a robust proinflammatory  response against B7H6-expressing tumors. The expression of T-bet with the B7H6-specific CAR in CD4+ T cells conferred higher expression of the CAR, elevated secretion of Th1 and proinflammatory cytokines, and improved cellular cytotoxicity against B7H6-expressing tumor cells. In vivo, CD4+ T cells co-expressing a B7H6-specific CAR and T-bet improved the survival of RMA-B7H6 lymphoma-bearing mice. Thus, CD4+ CAR T cells with increased T-bet expression have the potential to modify the tumor microenvironment and the immune response to better treat solid and hematologic cancers."

"340. Cancer Lett. 2018 Jun 1;423:95-104. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.03.010. Epub 2018  Mar 12.","Gene-knocked out chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells: Tuning up for the next  generation cancer immunotherapy.","Recently clinical trials utilizing genetically engineered T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that is half monoclonal antibody and half T-cell  receptor have demonstrated remarkable response in patients with advanced cancers  like relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and lymphoma. Moreover, emerging chimeric genome editing tools such as zinc-finger nucleases (ZNFs), transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) and clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/Cas composed of sequence-specific DNA binding module(s) linked to a non-specific DNA cleavage domain have made possible to dramatically expand the ability to manipulate cells  aim to treat and/or study a wide range of diseases including cancer. Here, we will discuss how joint application of these two chimeras will help us to manipulate CAR T cells aiming to enhance the efficacy of CAR T cell therapy in preclinical and clinical settings."

"342. Drug Discov Today. 2018 Jun;23(6):1175-1182. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2018.02.012. Epub 2018 Mar 1.","Approved CAR T cell therapies: ice bucket challenges on glaring safety risks and  long-term impacts.","Two autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies (Kymriah™ and Yescarta™) were recently approved by the FDA. Kymriah™ is for the treatment of pediatric patients and young adults with refractory or relapse (R/R) B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia and Yescarta™ is for the treatment of adult patients with R/R large B cell lymphoma. In common, both are CD19-specific  CAR T cell therapies lysing CD19-positive targets. Their dramatic efficacy in the short term has been highlighted by many media reports. By contrast, their glaring safety gaps behind the miracles remain much less addressed. Here, we focus on addressing the crucial challenges in relation to the gaps."

"343. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Jun;18(6):653-664. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1473368. Epub 2018 May 14.","Strategies for enhancing adoptive T-cell immunotherapy against solid tumors using engineered cytokine signaling and other modalities.","INTRODUCTION: Cancer therapy has been transformed by the demonstration that tumor-specific T-cells can eliminate tumor cells in a clinical setting with minimal long-term toxicity. However, significant success in the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma with T-cells using native receptors or redirected with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has not been recapitulated in the treatment of  solid tumors. This lack of success is likely related to the paucity of costimulatory and cytokine signaling available in solid tumors, in addition to a  range of inhibitory mechanisms. AREAS COVERED: We summarize the latest developments in engineered T-cell immunotherapy, describe the limitations of these approaches in treating solid tumors, and finally highlight several strategies that may be useful in mediating  solid tumor responses in the future, while also ensuring safety of engineered cells. EXPERT OPINION: CAR-T therapies require further engineering to achieve their potential against solid tumors. Facilitating cytokine signaling in CAR T-cells appears to be essential in achieving better responses. However, the engineering of T-cells with potentially unchecked proliferation and potency raises the question of whether the simultaneous combination of enhancements will prove safe, necessitating continued advancements in regulating CAR-T activity at the tumor site and methods to safely switch off these engineered cells."

"344. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2018 Jun 1;23:2245-2254.","GITR domain inside CAR co-stimulates activity of CAR-T cells against cancer.","T cells expressing Chimeric antigen receptors or CAR-T cells are used as a novel  treatment against hematological and solid cancers. In this report, we designed CAR with glucocorticoid-induced TNFR-related protein (GITR) co-stimulatory domain to study its ability to co-activate CAR-T cells. EGFR-GITR-CD3 CAR-T cells were cytotoxic against EGFR-positive: pancreatic and ovarian cancer cells but not against EGFR-negative cancer cells. The cytotoxic activity of EGFR-GITR-CD3 CAR-T cells was comparable or better than EGFR-28-CD3 or EGFR-41BB-CD3 CAR-T cells. We  designed also EGFR-CD3-GITR-CAR and EGFR-ΔGITR-CD3 with deleted 184-192 amino-acids of co-stimulatory GITR domain, and showed that EGFR-GITR-CD3 had significantly higher cytotoxic activity against EGFR-positive cells. The EGFR-GITR-CD3 cells secreted significantly higher levels of IFN-gamma than EGFR-CD3-GITR and EGFR-ΔGITR-CD3 cells. In addition, Mesothelin-GITR-CD3 CAR-T cells also killed mesothelin-positive ovarian cancer cell lines, and pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, CD19-GITR-CD3 CAR-T cells had significant cytotoxic activity against CD19-positive cancer cells in vitro and in Raji xenograft tumors in vivo. Thus, our results clearly show that GITR co-stimulatory domain can be used as a novel co-stimulatory domain in CAR-T cells."

"345. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2018 Jun 1;23:1933-1968.","Targeting fibroblast activation protein in cancer - Prospects and caveats.","Fibroblast activation protein (FAP, seprase) is a serine protease with post-proline dipeptidyl peptidase and endopeptidase enzymatic activity. FAP is upregulated in several tumor types, while its expression in healthy adult tissues is scarce. FAP molecule itself and FAP+ stromal cells play an important although  probably context-dependent and tumor type-specific pathogenetic role in tumor progression. We provide an overview of FAP expression under both physiological and pathological conditions with focus on human malignancies. We also review and  critically analyze the results of studies which used various strategies for the therapeutic targeting of FAP including the use of low molecular weight inhibitors, FAP activated prodrugs, anti-FAP antibodies and their conjugates, FAP-CAR T cells, and FAP vaccines. A unique enzymatic activity and selective expression in tumor microenvironment make FAP a promising therapeutic target. A better understanding of its role in individual tumor types, careful selection of  patients, and identification of suitable combinations with currently available anticancer treatments will be critical for a successful translation of preclinically tested approaches of FAP targeting into clinical setting."

"346. Gene Ther. 2018 Jun;25(3):176-191. doi: 10.1038/s41434-018-0019-6. Epub 2018 May  7.","Fludarabine and neurotoxicity in engineered T-cell therapy.","Adoptive T-cell therapy, incorporating engineered T cell receptors (TCRs) or chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), target tumor antigens with high affinity and specificity. To increase the potency of adoptively transferred T cells, patients  are conditioned with lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimens prior to adoptive T-cell transfer (ACT), and data suggest that fludarabine is an important component of an effective regimen. In a recent clinical trial using CAR-T cells engineered to target the CD19 B-cell antigen to treat acute lymphoblastic leukemia, JCAR-015 (NCT02535364), two patient deaths due to cerebral edema led to trial suspension. The lymphodepleting agent fludarabine was suggested as the causative agent, in part due to its known association with neurotoxicity and its  ability to induce greater potency. In a similar CAR-T study also incorporating fludarabine in the preconditioning regimen, ZUMA-1 (NCT02348216), one patient died of cerebral edema. However, subsequent deaths in the JCAR-015 study after removal of fludarabine and improved understanding behind the mechanisms of CAR-T-related encephalopathy syndrome (CRES) indicate that fludarabine is not the primary causative agent of cerebral edema and that it can be safely incorporated  into the preconditioning regimen for ACT. Since entering clinical use in the late 1980s as a chemotherapy agent, fludarabine and similar analogs have been associated with lethal neurological toxicity, yet the manifestation and timing of symptoms are distinct to those observed recently in ACT. Herein, we review the history of fludarabine development as a chemotherapeutic agent, and discuss the safety of its continued use in preconditioning regimens for ACT."

"347. Gene Ther. 2018 Jun;25(3):198-204. doi: 10.1038/s41434-017-0001-8. Epub 2018 Mar  29.","Excessive activated T-cell proliferation after anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy.","Excessive activated T-cell proliferation was observed in vivo in one patient after an anti-CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell infusion. The patient,  who had chemotherapy refractory and CD19+ diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL),  received an anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusion following conditioning chemotherapy (fludarabine/cyclophosphamide). The lymphocyte count in the peripheral blood (PB) increased to 77 × 109/L on day 13 post infusion, and the proportion of CD8+ actived T cells was 93.06% of the lymphocytes. Then, the patient suffered from fever and hypoxaemia. Significant increases in serum cytokine, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), and  glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase (γ-GT) levels were observed. A high-throughput sequencing analysis for T-cell receptors (TCRs) and whole-genome sequencing were  used to explore the mechanisms underlying this excessive T-cell proliferation. TCR diversity was demonstrated, but no special gene mutation was found. The patient was found to be infected with the John Cunningham polyomavirus (JCV). It  cannot be ruled out the bystander activation pathway induced by JCV infections related the excessive activated T-cell proliferation. Although the clinical and laboratory data do not fully explain the reason for excessive T-cell proliferation after the anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusion, the risk of this type of toxicity should be emphasized. This study was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01864889."

"348. Gene Ther. 2018 Jun;25(3):192-197. doi: 10.1038/gt.2017.81. Epub 2017 Sep 21.","Interleukin-armed chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for cancer immunotherapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-T) are endowed with cytotoxic specificity to tumor cells. Although CAR-T-based cancer immunotherapy presents curable therapeutic potential for hematological malignancies, achieving substantial efficacy for solid tumors remain challenging. Researchers have exploited many strategies to enhance the anti-tumor efficacy of CAR-T cells for solid tumors, among which cytokine-armed CAR-T cells improve the proliferation, survival, homing and other properties of CAR-T cells. Interleukins (ILs), pivotal cytokines that affect the function of immune cells, were co-expressed in CAR-T cells or combinatorially administered to enhance the therapeutic potential in clinical trials. In this review, we summarize the strategies exploited by ILs to  improve the anti-cancer ability of CAR-T cells and the different impacts of different ILs on CAR-T cells."

"349. J Immunother. 2018 Jun;41(5):213-223. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000209.","Blockade of BAFF Receptor BR3 on T Cells Enhances Their Activation and Cytotoxicity.","The BAFF receptor BR3 plays key roles in B-cell activation, maturation, and survival whereas the function of BR3 on T lymphocytes is less well characterized. Previous reports have demonstrated that BR3 costimulates human T-cell activation  in vitro in the presence of high nonphysiological levels of plate-bound BAFF. Here, relying on the soluble and membrane-bound BAFF expressed by T cells themselves, we investigated the function of BR3 on activated primary CD4 and CD8  T lymphocytes using a BR3-specific neutralization antibody and shRNA gene down-modulation. Interestingly, the anti-BR3 blocking antibody resulted in significant augmentation of CD25 and IFN-γ expression by both subsets, as did shRNA-mediated down-modulation of BR3. In addition, granzyme B expression was substantially elevated in anti-BR3-treated and BR3-silenced T cells. Anti-BR3 blockade increased the expression of CD25 on cytolytic CRTAM T cells. Importantly, anti-BR3 significantly enhanced redirected killing of P-815 cells by both CD4 and CD8 cytotoxic T cells [cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs)]. Furthermore, anti-BR3-augmented CD4 T-cell-mediated killing of class II melanoma cell line A375 and cervical cancer cell line HeLa in vitro, increasing the level of granzyme B activity as measured by PARP-1 cleavage and active caspase 3. Together, our data indicate that BR3 neutralization increases the activation and  cytolytic function of CD4 and CD8 cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Our findings provide a novel strategy for ex vivo T-cell activation applicable to T-cell immunotherapy platforms such as TIL or CAR-T cell therapeutics."

"350. Leukemia. 2018 Jun;32(6):1317-1326. doi: 10.1038/s41375-018-0075-3. Epub 2018 Feb 25.","Compound CAR T-cells as a double-pronged approach for treating acute myeloid leukemia.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) bears heterogeneous cells that can consequently offset killing by single-CAR-based therapy, which results in disease relapse. Leukemic stem cells (LSCs) associated with CD123 expression comprise a rare population that also plays an important role in disease progression and relapse.  Here, we report on the robust anti-tumor activity of a compound CAR (cCAR) T-cell possessing discrete scFv domains targeting two different AML antigens, CD123, and CD33, simultaneously. We determined that the resulting cCAR T-cells possessed consistent, potent, and directed cytotoxicity against each target antigen population. Using four leukemia mouse models, we found superior in vivo survival  after cCAR treatment. We also designed an alemtuzumab safety-switch that allowed  for rapid cCAR therapy termination in vivo. These findings indicate that targeting both CD123 and CD33 on AML cells may be an effective strategy for eliminating both AML bulk disease and LSCs, and potentially prevent relapse due to antigen escape or LSC persistence."

"351. Nat Biomed Eng. 2018 Jun;2(6):377-391. doi: 10.1038/s41551-018-0235-9. Epub 2018  Jun 11.","Programming CAR-T cells to kill cancer.","T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that are specific for tumour antigens have led to high complete response rates in patients with haematologic malignancies. Despite this early success, major challenges to the broad application of CAR-T cells as cancer therapies remain, including treatment-associated toxicities and cancer relapse with antigen-negative tumours. Targeting solid tumours with CAR-T cells poses additional obstacles because of the paucity of tumour-specific antigens and the immunosuppressive effects of the  tumour microenvironment. To overcome these challenges, T cells can be programmed  with genetic modules that increase their therapeutic potency and specificity. In  this Review Article, we survey major advances in the engineering of next-generation CAR-T therapies for haematologic cancers and solid cancers, with  particular emphasis on strategies for the control of CAR specificity and activity and on approaches for improving CAR-T-cell persistence and overcoming immunosuppression. We also lay out a roadmap for the development of off-the-shelf CAR-T cells."

"355. Proteomics. 2018 Jun;18(12):e1700465. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201700465.","Immunopeptidomic Profiling of HLA-A2-Positive Triple Negative Breast Cancer Identifies Potential Immunotherapy Target Antigens.","The recent development in immune checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells in the treatment of cancer has not only demonstrated the potency of utilizing T-cell reactivity for cancer therapy, but has also highlighted the need for developing new approaches to discover targets suitable for such novel therapeutics. Here we analyzed the immunopeptidomes of six HLA-A2-positive triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) samples by nano-ultra performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nUPLC-MS2 ). Immunopeptidomic profiling identified a total of 19 675 peptides from tumor and adjacent normal tissue and 130 of the peptides were found to have higher abundance in tumor than in normal tissues. To determine potential therapeutic target proteins, we calculated the average tumor-associated cohort coverage (aTaCC) that represents the percentage coverage of each protein in this cohort by peptides that had higher tumoral abundance. Cofilin-1 (CFL-1), interleukin-32 (IL-32), proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), syntenin-1 (SDCBP), and ribophorin-2 (RPN-2) were found to have the highest aTaCC scores. We propose that these antigens could be evaluated further for their potential as targets in breast cancer immunotherapy and the small cohort immunopeptidomics analysis technique could be used in a wide spectrum of target discovery. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009738."

"356. Ther Adv Hematol. 2018 Jun;9(6):135-148. doi: 10.1177/2040620718774268. Epub 2018 May 17.","Acute myeloid leukemia chimeric antigen receptor T-cell immunotherapy: how far up the road have we traveled?","Chemotherapy resistance and relapse remain significant sources of mortality for children and adults with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Further intensification of conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy is likely not feasible due to the severity of acute and long-term side effects upon normal tissues commonly induced by these drugs. Successful development and implementation of new precision medicine treatment approaches for patients with AML, which may improve leukemia remission  and diminish toxicity, is thus a major priority. Tumor antigen-redirected chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapies have induced remarkable responses in patients with relapsed or chemorefractory B-lymphoblastic leukemia,  and similar strategies are now under early clinical study in adults with relapsed/refractory AML. However, potential on target/off tumor toxicity of AML CAR T-cell immunotherapies, notably aplasia of normal myeloid cells, may limit broader implementation of such approaches. Careful selection of optimal target antigens, consideration of toxicity mitigation strategies, and development of methodologies to circumvent potential CAR T-cell resistance are essential for successful implementation of cellular immunotherapies for patients with high-risk AML."

"358. Cell. 2018 May 31;173(6):1439-1453.e19. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2018.05.013. Epub 2018 May 31.","Genetic Inactivation of CD33 in Hematopoietic Stem Cells to Enable CAR T Cell Immunotherapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","The absence of cancer-restricted surface markers is a major impediment to antigen-specific immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. For example, targeting the canonical myeloid marker CD33 in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) results in toxicity from destruction of normal myeloid cells. We hypothesized that a leukemia-specific antigen could be created by deleting CD33 from normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), thereby generating a hematopoietic system resistant to CD33-targeted therapy and enabling specific targeting of AML with CAR T cells. We generated CD33-deficient human HSPCs and demonstrated normal engraftment and differentiation in immunodeficient mice. Autologous CD33 KO HSPC transplantation in rhesus macaques demonstrated long-term multilineage engraftment of gene-edited cells with normal myeloid function. CD33-deficient cells were impervious to CD33-targeting CAR T cells, allowing for  efficient elimination of leukemia without myelotoxicity. These studies illuminate a novel approach to antigen-specific immunotherapy by genetically engineering the host to avoid on-target, off-tumor toxicity."

"359. Cell. 2018 May 31;173(6):1316-1317. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2018.05.030. Epub 2018 May 31.","Increasing T Cell Versatility with SUPRA CARs.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells offer a promising treatment option for advanced cancers resistant to standard therapy. Here, Cho et al. report a split-CAR design that enables the engineering of multi-feature CAR-T cells, aiming to address current challenges limiting the safety and efficacy of CAR-T cells for cancer treatment."

"361. Pharm Res. 2018 May 31;35(8):152. doi: 10.1007/s11095-018-2436-z.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cells (CAR T-Cells) for Cancer Immunotherapy - Moving Target for Industry?","The first CD19 CAR T-cell products, Kymriah and Yescarta, are entering the US market and also being evaluated for marketing authorization in the EU. This breakthrough has expanded the interest and also investments towards novel chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) designs, both for hematological malignancies and  solid tumors. At the same time, there is active development in moving from autologous products to allogeneic, off-the-shelf -products. New manufacturing technologies are also emerging for production of these complex genetically-modified cells and even decentralized manufacturing in hospitals is under consideration. However, the high potency of CAR T-cells is associated with  toxicity and not all patients respond to the treatment. In addition, the number of patient and product variables impacting the clinical outcome is high. The race towards novel CAR T treatment options for cancer patients has begun, but without  careful design of the constructs and overall understanding of the factors that impact the ultimate outcome in each case, the road towards commercial success may be long and winding. This review discusses the product- and patient-related variables that may pose challenges for the industry and developers both from the  scientific and regulatory perspective."

"362. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2018 May 31;14:1007-1017. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S145039. eCollection 2018.","Axicabtagene ciloleucel (KTE-C19), an anti-CD19 CAR T therapy for the treatment of relapsed/refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma.","Adoptive T-cell immunotherapy is a rapidly growing field and is shifting the paradigm of clinical cancer treatment. Axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel) is an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy that was initially developed at the National Cancer Institute and has recently been commercially approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkins lymphomas including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and its variants. The ZUMA-1 Phase I and II clinical trials formed the basis of the US Food and Drug Administration approval of this product, and we discuss the particulars of the clinical trials and the pharmacology of axi-cel. In addition, we review the CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-specific toxicities of cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, which remain the challenges to the safe delivery of this important therapy for aggressive B-cell lymphomas with poor prognosis."

"363. Front Immunol. 2018 May 30;9:1062. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01062. eCollection 2018.","GMP-Grade Manufacturing of T Cells Engineered to Express a Defined γδTCR.","γ9δ2T cells play a critical role in daily cancer immune surveillance by sensing cancer-mediated metabolic changes. However, a major limitation of the therapeutic application of γ9δ2T cells is their diversity and regulation through innate co-receptors. In order to overcome natural obstacles of γ9δ2T cells, we have developed the concept of T cells engineered to express a defined γδT cell receptor (TEGs). This next generation of chimeric antigen receptor engineered T (CAR-T) cells not only allows for targeting of hematological but also of solid tumors and, therefore, overcomes major limitations of many CAR-T and γδT cell strategies. Here, we report on the development of a robust manufacturing procedure of T cells engineered to express the high affinity Vγ9Vδ2T cell receptor (TCR) clone 5 (TEG001). We determined the best concentration of anti-CD3/CD28 activation and expansion beads, optimal virus titer, and cell density for retroviral transduction, and validated a Good Manufacturing Practice  (GMP)-grade purification procedure by utilizing the CliniMACS system to deplete non- and poorly-engineered T cells. To the best of our knowledge, we have developed the very first GMP manufacturing procedure in which αβTCR depletion is  used as a purification method, thereby delivering untouched clinical grade engineered immune cells. This enrichment method is applicable to any engineered T cell product with a reduced expression of endogenous αβTCRs. We report on release criteria and the stability of TEG001 drug substance and TEG001 drug product. The  GMP-grade production procedure is now approved by Dutch authorities and allows TEG001 to be generated in cell numbers sufficient to treat patients within the approved clinical trial NTR6541. NTR6541 will investigate the safety and tolerability of TEG001 in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia, high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome, and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma."

"364. PLoS One. 2018 May 30;13(5):e0197349. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197349. eCollection 2018.","Feasibility of controlling CD38-CAR T cell activity with a Tet-on inducible CAR design.","Recent clinical advances with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have led to the accelerated clinical approval of CD19-CARs to treat acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The CAR T cell therapy is nevertheless associated with toxicities, especially if the CARs are not entirely tumor-specific. Therefore, strategies for controlling the CAR T cell activity are required to improve their safety profile. Here, by using the multiple myeloma (MM)-associated CD38 molecule as target molecule, we tested the feasibility and utility of a doxycycline (DOX) inducible  Tet-on CD38-CAR design to control the off-target toxicities of CAR T cells. Using CARs with high affinity to CD38, we demonstrate that this strategy allows the proper induction of CD38-CARs and CAR-mediated T cell cytotoxicity in a DOX-dose  dependent manner. Especially when the DOX dose was limited to 10ng/ml, its removal resulted in a relatively rapid decay of CAR- related off-tumor effects within 24 hours, indicating the active controllability of undesired CAR activity. This Tet-on CAR design also allowed us to induce the maximal anti-MM cytotoxic activity of affinity-optimized CD38-CAR T cells, which already display a low toxicity profile, hereby adding a second level of safety to these cells. Collectively, these results indicate the possibility to utilize this DOX inducible CAR-design to actively regulate the CAR-mediated activities of therapeutic T cells. We therefore conclude that the Tet-on system may be more advantageous above suicide-genes to control the potential toxicities of CAR T cells without the need to destroy them permanently."

"365. Med Oncol. 2018 May 29;35(7):98. doi: 10.1007/s12032-018-1156-x.","Is there a role for immunotherapy in malignant pleural mesothelioma?","Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a very aggressive malignancy, mainly caused by asbestos exposure. Patients with MPM have a poor prognosis that remained substantially unchanged in the last few years and limited effective therapeutic options with no recognized second or further-line therapy. In this context, also in view of the positive results observed in other tumor types, immunotherapy could play a relevant role. This review focuses on the most promising immunotherapies being investigated in MPM."

"366. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2018 May 25;34(5):731-742. doi: 10.13345/j.cjb.170437.","[Construction of HER2-specific CAR-T cells and in vitro analysis of their activity to suppress tumor cell growth].","CAR-T cell therapy that targets surface antigens to kill tumor cells specifically has recently become another cornerstone in tumor immunotherapy. In this study, a  lentiviral expression plasmid of CAR targeting human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was constructed by genetic engineering. The recombinant plasmid was co-transfected with other packaging plasmids into HEK293T cells by calcium phosphate precipitation to generate lenti-car, which are CAR lentiviral particles. HER2-specific CAR-T cells were obtained by transducing human peripheral blood mononuclear cells with lenti-car. Their specific inhibitory effects on HER2-positive and HER2-negative tumor cells were analyzed in vitro. The constructed CAR-T cells were specifically activated by HER2-expressing tumor  cells as indicated by secretion of IFN-γ and IL-2. The inhibitory rate on HER2-positive SK-OV-3 cell line was (58.47±1.72)%, significantly higher than that on the mock-treated control group (P<0.05). The inhibitory rate on HER2-negative  K562 cell lines was (11.74±2.37)%, which was not significantly different from that on the control group (P>0.05). Furthermore, when we transfected a HER2-expressing vector into K562, the inhibitory rate increased to (30.41±7.59)%, which was higher than that on HER2-negative K562 (P<0.05). Thus, the constructed  second-generation HER2-specific CAR-T cells specifically suppressed growth of tumor cells overexpressing HER2 protein, suggesting that HER2-specific CAR-T cells might prove useful for immunotherapy of HER2-positive cancer."

"367. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2018 May 23;38:e6-e15. doi: 10.1200/EDBK_200889.","CAR T Cells and Other Cellular Therapies for Multiple Myeloma: 2018 Update.","Cellular therapies are a rapidly evolving approach to myeloma treatment, which bring a unique mechanism of action with the potential to overcome drug resistance and induce long-term remissions. Two primary approaches are being studied: non-gene-modified strategies, which rely on the endogenous anti-myeloma T-cell repertoire, and gene-modified strategies, which introduce a new T-cell receptor (TCR) or a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to confer novel antigen specificity. CAR T cells show the greatest activity to date. Multiple antigen targets, including B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), CD19, CD38, CD138, and SLAMF7, are being explored for myeloma, and BCMA has emerged as the most promising. Preliminary data from four phase I studies of BCMA CAR T cells, each using a different CAR construct, that involved 90 evaluable patients with relapsed/refractory disease have been reported. These data show response rates of 60% to 100%, including minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative complete remissions, at effective doses (> 108 CAR-positive cells) after lymphodepleting conditioning. Response durability has been more variable, likely related to differences in CAR T-cell products, lymphodepleting regimens, patient selection criteria, and/or underlying biology/prognostic factors. In the two most recent studies, however, most patients remained progression free with median follow-up time of 6 to 10 months; some ongoing remissions lasted more than 1 year. Toxicities are similar to those from CD19 CAR T cells and include cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity that is reversible but can be severe. Multiple BCMA CAR T-cell studies are ongoing. Future directions include combinations with  immunomodulatory drugs, checkpoint inhibitors, or other CAR T cells, as well as use of gene-edited cellular products to enhance the safety and efficacy of this approach."

"368. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2018 May 23;38:830-837. doi: 10.1200/EDBK_200773.","The Landscape of CAR T Cells Beyond Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia for Pediatric Solid Tumors.","Adoptive cell therapy with genetically modified T cells holds the promise to improve outcomes for children with recurrent/refractory solid tumors and has the  potential to reduce treatment complications for all patients. Although T cells that express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CD19 have had remarkable success for B-cell-derived malignancies, which has led to their approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, CAR T cells have been less effective for solid tumors and brain tumors. Lack of efficacy is most likely multifactorial, but heterogeneous antigen expression; limited migration of T cells to tumor sites; and the immunosuppressive, hostile tumor microenvironment have emerged as major roadblocks that must be addressed. In this review, we summarize the clinical experience with CAR T-cell therapy for pediatric solid tumors, including brain tumors. In addition, we review strategies that have been  and are being developed to enhance their antitumor activity."

"369. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2018 May 23;38:592-603. doi: 10.1200/EDBK_200549.","Beyond Chemotherapy: Checkpoint Inhibition and Cell-Based Therapy in Non-Hodgkin  Lymphoma.","Immune-based treatment strategies, such as checkpoint inhibition and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have started a new frontier for treatment in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Checkpoint inhibition has been most successful in Hodgkin lymphoma, where higher expression of PD-L1 is correlated with better overall response rate. Combinations of checkpoint inhibition with various chemotherapy or biologics are in clinical trials, with initially promising results and manageable safety profiles. CAR T-cell therapies that target CD19 are a promising and attractive therapy for B-cell NHLs, with a product approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2017. Changes in the target, hinge, or costimulatory domain can dramatically alter the persistence and efficacy of the CAR T cells. The ZUMA trials from Kite used CD19-(CD28z) CAR T cells, whereas the TRANSCEND studies from Juno and the JULIET studies from Novartis used CD19-(4-1BBz) CARs. Despite the recent successes with CAR T-cell clinical trials, major concerns associated with this therapy include cytokine release syndrome, potential neurotoxicities, B-cell aplasia, loss of tumor antigen leading to relapse, and cost and accessibility of the treatment. Although first-generation CAR T-cell therapies have failed in solid malignancies, newer second- and third-generation CAR T cells that target antigens other than CD19 (such as mesothelin or B-cell maturation antigen) are being studied in clinical trials for treatment of lung cancer or multiple myeloma. Overall, immune-based treatment strategies have given oncologists and patients hope when there used to be none, as well as a new basket of tools yet to come with further research and development."

"370. Front Immunol. 2018 May 22;9:1104. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01104. eCollection 2018.","Perspectives on Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Immunotherapy for Solid Tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy entails the genetic engineering of a patients T-cells to express membrane spanning fusion receptors with defined specificities for tumor-associated antigens. These CARs are capable of eliciting  robust T-cell activation to initiate killing of the target tumor cells. This therapeutic approach has produced unprecedented clinical outcomes in the treatment of liquid hematologic cancers, but to date has not produced comparable responses in targeting solid malignancies. Advances in our understanding of the immunobiology of solid tumors have highlighted several hurdles which currently hinder the efficacy of this therapy. These barriers include the insufficient accumulation of CAR T-cells in the tumor due to poor trafficking or physical exclusion and the exposure of infiltrating CAR T-cells to a panoply of immune suppressive checkpoint molecules, cytokines, and metabolic stresses that are not conducive to efficient immune reactions and can thereby render these cells anergic, exhausted, or apoptotic. This mini-review summarizes  these hurdles and describes some recent approaches and innovations to genetically re-engineer CAR T-cells to counter inhibitory influences found in the tumor microenvironment. Novel immunotherapy drug combinations to potentiate the activity of CAR T-cells are also discussed. As our understanding of the immune landscape of tumors improves and our repertoire of immunotherapeutic drugs expands, it is envisaged that the efficacy of CAR T-cells against solid tumors might be potentiated using combination therapies, which it is hoped may lead to meaningful improvements in clinical outcome for patients with refractory solid malignancies."

"371. Oncotarget. 2018 May 22;9(39):25597-25616. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25390. eCollection 2018 May 22.","From mono- to bivalent: improving theranostic properties of target modules for redirection of UniCAR T cells against EGFR-expressing tumor cells in vitro and in vivo.","CAR-modified T cells show impressive results in clinical trials. However, cytokine release syndrome and on-target, off-tumor reactions represent most concerning side effects. To improve the safety of CAR-T cell therapy, we established a switchable CAR platform termed UniCAR system consisting of two components: UniCAR-modified T cells and tumor-specific target modules (TM). For treatment of EGFR+ epithelial tumors, we recently described a monovalent nanobody-based α-EGFR TM, either expressed in bacteria or eukaryotic cells. In spite of the identical primary sequence the eukaryotic TM showed a reduced killing capability and affinity. Here we describe a novel bivalent α-EGFR-EGFR TM. As expected, the avidity of the bivalent TM is higher than that of its monovalent counterpart. Binding of neither the monovalent α-EGFR TM nor the bivalent α-EGFR-EGFR TM to EGFR effected the EGF-mediated signaling. While the monovalent α-EGFR TM could only mediate the killing of tumor cells expressing high levels of EGFR, the bivalent α-EGFR-EGFR TM could redirect UniCAR T cells to tumor cells expressing low levels of EGFR. According to PET experiments in vivo,  the increased avidity of the bivalent α-EGFR-EGFR TM improves the enrichment at the tumor site and its use for PET imaging."

"372. JCI Insight. 2018 May 17;3(10). pii: 99048. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.99048. eCollection 2018 May 17.","Glioblastoma-targeted CD4+ CAR T cells mediate superior antitumor activity.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR-modified) T cells have shown promising therapeutic effects for hematological malignancies, yet limited and inconsistent  efficacy against solid tumors. The refinement of CAR therapy requires an understanding of the optimal characteristics of the cellular products, including  the appropriate composition of CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. Here, we investigated the differential antitumor effect of CD4+ and CD8+ CAR T cells targeting glioblastoma-associated (GBM-associated) antigen IL-13 receptor α2 (IL13Rα2). Upon stimulation with IL13Rα2+ GBM cells, the CD8+ CAR T cells exhibited robust short-term effector function but became rapidly exhausted. By comparison, the CD4+ CAR T cells persisted after tumor challenge and sustained their effector potency. Mixing with CD4+ CAR T cells failed to ameliorate the effector dysfunction of CD8+ CAR T cells, while surprisingly, CD4+ CAR T cell effector potency was impaired when coapplied with CD8+ T cells. In orthotopic GBM models,  CD4+ outperformed CD8+ CAR T cells, especially for long-term antitumor response.  Further, maintenance of the CD4+ subset was positively correlated with the recursive killing ability of CAR T cell products derived from GBM patients. These findings identify CD4+ CAR T cells as a highly potent and clinically important T  cell subset for effective CAR therapy."

"373. Mol Cancer. 2018 May 16;17(1):91. doi: 10.1186/s12943-018-0840-y.","Advances on chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell therapy for oncotherapy.","Tumor treatment is still complicated in the field of medicine. Tumor immunotherapy has been the most interesting research field in cancer therapy. Application of chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has recently achieved excellent clinical outcome in patients, especially those with CD19-positive hematologic malignancies. This phenomenon has induced intense interest to develop CAR-T cell therapy for cancer, especially for solid tumors. However, the performance of CAR-T cell treatment in solid tumor is not as satisfactory as that in hematologic disease. Clinical studies on some neoplasms,  such as glioblastoma, ovarian cancer, and cholangiocarcinoma, have achieved desirable outcome. This review describes the history and evolution of CAR-T, generalizes the structure and preparation of CAR-T, and summarizes the latest advances on CAR-T cell therapy in different tumor types. The last section presents the current challenges and prospects of CAR-T application to provide guidance for subsequent research."

"374. Cancer. 2018 May 15;124(10):2075-2085. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31243. Epub 2018 Feb 6.","Current developments in immunotherapy in the treatment of multiple myeloma.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common hematologic malignancy and represents approximately 10% of all hematological neoplasms. Standard therapy consists of induction therapy followed by high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) or, if ASCT cannot be performed, standard doublet, triplet, or quadruplet, novel agent-containing induction treatment until progression. Although MM is still regarded as mostly incurable by current standards, the development of several novel compounds, combination therapies, and immunotherapy approaches has raised great hopes about transforming MM into an indolent, chronic disease and possibly achieving a cure for individual patients.  Several new inhibitory and immunological agents have been approved or are under intensive investigation and may lead to new therapeutic options for patients with relapsed/refractory MM, for patients ineligible for ASCT, and for patients after  ASCT. Especially in the field of immunotherapy, including monoclonal antibodies,  checkpoint inhibition, and chimeric antigen receptor T cells, current advances are rapid and highly promising. This review aims to summarize the newest and most promising immunotherapeutic agents for MM, their clinical efficacy, their adverse event (AE) profiles, and the ways in which these AEs can best be overcome or avoided. Cancer 2018;124:2075-85. © 2018 American Cancer Society."

"375. Cell Rep. 2018 May 15;23(7):2130-2141. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.04.051.","Engineered Tumor-Targeted T Cells Mediate Enhanced Anti-Tumor Efficacy Both Directly and through Activation of the Endogenous Immune System.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has proven clinically beneficial against B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkins lymphoma. However,  suboptimal clinical outcomes have been associated with decreased expansion and persistence of adoptively transferred CAR T cells, antigen-negative relapses, and impairment by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Improvements in CAR T cell design are required to enhance clinical efficacy, as well as broaden the applicability of this technology. Here, we demonstrate that interleukin-18 (IL-18)-secreting CAR T cells exhibit enhanced in vivo expansion and persistence  and significantly increase long-term survival in syngeneic mouse models of both hematological and solid malignancies. In addition, we demonstrate that IL-18-secreting CAR T cells are capable of modulating the tumor microenvironment, as well as enhancing an effective endogenous anti-tumor immune response. IL-18-secreting CAR T cells represent a promising strategy to enhance the clinical outcomes of adoptive T cell therapy."

"376. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 May 10;6(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0347-5.","CAR T cell therapy for breast cancer: harnessing the tumor milieu to drive T cell activation.","BACKGROUND: The adoptive transfer of T cells redirected to tumor via chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has produced clinical benefits for the treatment of hematologic diseases. To extend this approach to breast cancer, we generated CAR  T cells directed against mucin1 (MUC1), an aberrantly glycosylated neoantigen that is overexpressed by malignant cells and whose expression has been correlated with poor prognosis. Furthermore, to protect our tumor-targeted cells from the elevated levels of immune-inhibitory cytokines present in the tumor milieu, we co-expressed an inverted cytokine receptor linking the IL4 receptor exodomain with the IL7 receptor endodomain (4/7ICR) in order to transform the suppressive IL4 signal into one that would enhance the anti-tumor effects of our CAR T cells  at the tumor site. METHODS: First (1G - CD3ζ) and second generation (2G - 41BB.CD3ζ) MUC1-specific CARs were constructed using the HMFG2 scFv. Following retroviral transduction transgenic expression of the CAR±ICR was assessed by flow cytometry. In vitro CAR/ICR T cell function was measured by assessing cell proliferation and short- and long-term cytotoxic activity using MUC1+ MDA MB 468 cells as targets. In vivo anti-tumor activity was assessed using IL4-producing MDA MB 468 tumor-bearing mice using calipers to assess tumor volume and bioluminescence imaging to track T cells. RESULTS: In the IL4-rich tumor milieu, 1G CAR.MUC1 T cells failed to expand or kill MUC1+ tumors and while co-expression of the 4/7ICR promoted T cell expansion, in the absence of co-stimulatory signals the outgrowing cells exhibited an exhausted phenotype characterized by PD-1 and TIM3 upregulation and  failed to control tumor growth. However, by co-expressing 2G CAR.MUC1 (signal 1 - activation + signal 2 - co-stimulation) and 4/7ICR (signal 3 - cytokine), transgenic T cells selectively expanded at the tumor site and produced potent and durable tumor control in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate the feasibility of targeting breast cancer  using transgenic T cells equipped to thrive in the suppressive tumor milieu and highlight the importance of providing transgenic T cells with signals that recapitulate physiologic TCR signaling - [activation (signal 1), co-stimulation (signal 2) and cytokine support (signal 3)] - to promote in vivo persistence and  memory formation."

"377. Onco Targets Ther. 2018 May 8;11:2615-2626. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S155458. eCollection 2018.","Are ovarian cancer stem cells the target for innovative immunotherapy?","Cancer stem cells (CSCs), a subpopulation of cancer cells with the ability of self-renewal and differentiation, are believed to be responsible for tumor generation, progression, metastasis, and relapse. Ovarian cancer, the most malignant gynecological cancer, has consistent pathology behavior with CSC model, which suggests that therapies based on ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSCs) can gain a more successful prognosis. Much evidence has proved that epigenetic mechanism played an important role in tumor formation and sustainment. Since CSCs are generally resistant to conventional therapies (chemotherapy and radiotherapy), immunotherapy is a more effective method that has been implemented in the clinic. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell, an adoptive cellular immunotherapy, which results in apparent elimination of tumor in both hematologic and solid cancers, could be used for ovarian cancer. This review covers the basic conception of CSCs and OCSCs, the implication of epigenetic mechanism underlying cancer evolution considering CSC model, the immunotherapies reported for ovarian cancer targeting  OCSCs currently, and the relationship between immune system and hierarchy cancer  organized by CSCs. Particularly, the promising prospects and potential pitfalls of targeting OCSC surface markers to design CAR-T cellular immunotherapy are discussed here."

"378. Oncoimmunology. 2018 May 7;7(7):e1440169. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1440169. eCollection 2018.","CD133-directed CAR T cells for advanced metastasis malignancies: A phase I trial.","Expressed by cancer stem cells of various epithelial cell origins, CD133 is an attractive therapeutic target for cancers. Autologous chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell directed CD133 (CART-133) was first tested in this trial. The anti-tumor specificity and the postulated toxicities of CART-133 were  first assessed. Then, we conducted a phase I clinical study in which patients with advanced and CD133-positive tumors received CART-133 cell-infusion. We enrolled 23 patients (14 with hepatocellular carcinoma [HCC], 7 with pancreatic carcinomas, and 2 with colorectal carcinomas). The 8 initially enrolled patients  with HCC were treated by a CART-133 cell dose escalation scheme (0.05-2 × 106/kg). The higher CAR-copy numbers and its reverse relationship with the count  of CD133+ cells in peripheral blood led to the determination of an acceptable cell dose is 0.5-2 × 106/kg and reinfusion cycle in 23 patients. The primary toxicity is a decrease in hemoglobin/platelet (≤ grade 3) that is self-recovered  within 1 week. Of 23 patients, three achieved partial remission, and 14 achieved  stable disease. The 3-month disease control rate was 65.2%, and the median progression-free survival was 5 months. Repeated cell infusions seemed to provide a longer period of disease stability, especially in patients who achieved tumor reduction after the first cell-infusion. 21 out of 23 patients had not developed detectable de novo lesions during this term. Analysis of biopsied tissues by immunohistochemistry showed CD133+ cells were eliminated after CART-133 infusions. This trial showed the feasibility, controllable toxicities, and effective activity of CART-133 transfer for treating patients with CD133-postive and late-stage metastasis malignancies."

"379. Med Oncol. 2018 May 5;35(6):87. doi: 10.1007/s12032-018-1149-9.","Challenges and prospects of chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in solid tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is a novel and innovative immunotherapy. CAR-T cells are genetically engineered T cells, carrying MHC independent specific antigen receptor and co-stimulatory molecule which can activate an immune response to a cancer specific antigen. This therapy showed great results in hematological malignancies but were unable to prove their worth  in solid tumors. Likely reasons for their failure are lack of antigens, poor trafficking, and hostile tumor microenvironment. Excessive amount of research is  going on to improve the efficacy of CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors. In this article, we will discuss the challenges faced in improving the outcome of CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors and various strategies adopted to curb them."

"380. Med Oncol. 2018 May 4;35(6):84. doi: 10.1007/s12032-018-1145-0.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in pancreatic cancer: from research to practice.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is genetically engineered tumor antigen-specific anticancer immunotherapy, which after showing great success in hematological malignancies is currently being tried in advanced solid tumors like pancreatic cancer. Immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and dense fibrous stroma are some of the limitation in the success of this novel therapy. However,  genetic modifications and combination therapy is the topic of the research to improve its efficacy. In this article, we summarize the current state of knowledge, limitations, and future prospects for CAR T cell therapy in pancreatic cancer."

"383. Mol Ther. 2018 May 2;26(5):1215-1227. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.02.025. Epub 2018 Mar 6.","Long Terminal Repeat CRISPR-CAR-Coupled Universal T Cells Mediate Potent Anti-leukemic Effects.","Gene editing can be used to overcome allo-recognition, which otherwise limits allogeneic T cell therapies. Initial proof-of-concept applications have included  generation of such universal T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) against CD19 target antigens combined with transient expression of DNA-targeting nucleases to disrupt the T cell receptor alpha constant chain (TRAC). Although relatively efficient, transgene expression and editing effects were unlinked, yields variable, and resulting T cell populations heterogeneous, complicating dosing strategies. We describe a self-inactivating lentiviral terminal vector platform coupling CAR expression with CRISPR/Cas9 effects through incorporation of an sgRNA element into the ΔU3 3 long terminal repeat (LTR). Following reverse transcription and duplication of the hybrid ΔU3-sgRNA, delivery of Cas9 mRNA resulted in targeted TRAC locus cleavage and allowed the enrichment of highly homogeneous (>96%) CAR+ (>99%) TCR- populations by automated magnetic separation. Molecular analyses, including NGS, WGS, and Digenome-seq, verified on-target specificity with no evidence of predicted off-target events. Robust anti-leukemic effects were demonstrated in humanized immunodeficient mice  and were sustained longer than by conventional CAR+TCR+ T cells. Terminal-TRAC (TT) CAR T cells offer the possibility of a pre-manufactured, non-HLA-matched CAR cell therapy and will be evaluated in phase 1 trials against B cell malignancies  shortly."

"384. Ann Hematol. 2018 May;97(5):781-789. doi: 10.1007/s00277-018-3246-4. Epub 2018 Feb 7.","CD19 targeted CAR-T therapy versus chemotherapy in re-induction treatment of refractory/relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia: results of a case-controlled study.","Chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells against CD19 (CART19s) have potent anti-leukemia activities in patients with refractory/relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (R/R ALL). This study was designed to investigate the correlation between safety/efficacy and therapeutic modalities including chemotherapy and CART19 therapy. Total 23 and 69 patients were enrolled in the CART19 group and in the chemotherapy group, respectively. The safety and efficacy profiles of 66 and  22 patients in the 2 groups were evaluated. The complete remission (CR) rate was  higher in the CART19 group than that in the chemotherapy group (90.9 vs 37.9%, P = 0.000). For patients relapsed after allo-HSCT and chemotherapy, CR rates were 100% (8/8) vs 48.0% (12/25) (P = 0.009) and 85.7% (12/14) vs 31.7% (13/41) (P = 0.000), respectively. Moreover, a higher percentage in the CART19 group had  results below the threshold for minimal residual disease (100 vs 7.58%, P = 0.000). In survival analysis, the overall survival rate at 12 months was higher in the CART19 group than that in the chemotherapy group (60.9 vs 10.1%, P = 0.000). For post-transplant patients achieving CR, 25.0% (2/8) and 75.0% (9/12) complicated with GVHD (P = 0.04) in the CART19 group and chemotherapy group, respectively. For all CR patients, the median duration of absolute neutrophil count less than 500/μL and platelet count less than 20,000/μL were longer in the CART19 group than in the chemotherapy group (p = 0.0047 and 0.0003, respectively). Our data demonstrated that patients with CART19s therapy acquired  higher rates of remission and longer survival, confirming the encouraging application of CART19 therapy in R/R ALL."

"385. Br J Haematol. 2018 May;181(4):433-446. doi: 10.1111/bjh.15116. Epub 2018 May 10.","Investigational agents in immunotherapy: a new horizon for the treatment of multiple myeloma.","The treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) has gone through several major advances over the last 5 years with the introduction of next generation proteasome inhibitors (PI; carfilzomib, ixazomib) and immunomodulatory derivatives (IMiD; pomalidomide), with these new agents having a substantial impact on patient outcome. However, despite these advances, MM remains a highly resistant disease given its propensity for clonal heterogeneity and its complex interaction with the surrounding bone marrow microenvironment. Almost all patients eventually relapse despite therapeutic responses to a PI, IMiD or both. With the regulatory  approval of the monoclonal antibodies Daratumumab and Elotuzumab in 2015, impressive and durable responses are being observed, even in heavily pre-treated  patients who have exhausted other therapeutic options, suggesting immunological approaches in this setting have real merit. This review will focus on newer monoclonal antibodies and chimeric-antigen receptor (CAR) T cell strategies currently under investigation and in various stages of clinical development."

"386. Br J Haematol. 2018 May;181(3):360-371. doi: 10.1111/bjh.15195. Epub 2018 Apr 10.","Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with the second generation of CD19 CAR-T containing either CD28 or 4-1BB.","T cells modified with anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) containing either CD28 or 4-1BB (also termed TNFRSF9, CD137) costimulatory signalling have shown great potential in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). However, the difference between CD28 and 4-1BB costimulatory signalling in CAR-T treatment has not been well elucidated in clinical trials. In this study, we treated 10 relapsed or refractory ALL patients with the second generation CD19 CAR-T. The first 5 patients were treated with CD28-CAR and the other 5 patients were treated with 4-1BB CAR-T. All the 10 patients were response-evaluable. Three patients achieved complete remission and 1 patient with extramedullary disease achieved partial response after CD28-CAR-T treatment. In the 4-1BB CAR-T treatment group,  3 patients achieved complete remission. Furthermore, FLT-3 ligand (FLT3LG) was highly correlated with response time and may serve as a prognosis factor. No severe adverse events were observed in these 10 treated patients. Our study showed that both CD28 CAR-T and 4-1BB CAR-T both worked for response but they differed in response pattern (peak reaction time, reaction lasting time and reaction degree), adverse events, cytokine secretion and immune-suppressive factor level."

"387. Cancer Discov. 2018 May;8(5):522-523. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-NB2018-036. Epub  2018 Mar 26.","Making Better CARs for Kids.","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"388. Cancer Discov. 2018 May;8(5):524-525. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-NB2018-032. Epub  2018 Mar 14.","CSPG4 Shows Promise for Glioblastoma CAR T Therapy.","©2018 American Association for Cancer Research."

"389. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 May;6(5):509-516. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-16-0362. Epub 2018 Apr 3.","Human GUCY2C-Targeted Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR)-Expressing T Cells Eliminate Colorectal Cancer Metastases.","One major hurdle to the success of adoptive T-cell therapy is the identification  of antigens that permit effective targeting of tumors in the absence of toxicities to essential organs. Previous work has demonstrated that T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T cells) targeting the murine homolog of the colorectal cancer antigen GUCY2C treat established colorectal cancer metastases, without toxicity to the normal GUCY2C-expressing intestinal epithelium, reflecting structural compartmentalization of endogenous GUCY2C to apical membranes comprising the intestinal lumen. Here, we examined the utility of a human-specific, GUCY2C-directed single-chain variable fragment as the basis for a CAR construct targeting human GUCY2C-expressing metastases. Human GUCY2C-targeted murine CAR-T cells promoted antigen-dependent T-cell activation quantified by activation marker upregulation, cytokine production, and killing of GUCY2C-expressing, but not GUCY2C-deficient, cancer cells in vitro GUCY2C CAR-T cells provided long-term protection against lung metastases of murine colorectal  cancer cells engineered to express human GUCY2C in a syngeneic mouse model. GUCY2C murine CAR-T cells recognized and killed human colorectal cancer cells endogenously expressing GUCY2C, providing durable survival in a human xenograft model in immunodeficient mice. Thus, we have identified a human GUCY2C-specific CAR-T cell therapy approach that may be developed for the treatment of GUCY2C-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(5); 509-16. ©2018 AACR."

"390. Cancer Sci. 2018 May;109(5):1292-1299. doi: 10.1111/cas.13580.","Podoplanin: An emerging cancer biomarker and therapeutic target.","Podoplanin (PDPN) is a transmembrane receptor glycoprotein that is upregulated on transformed cells, cancer associated fibroblasts and inflammatory macrophages that contribute to cancer progression. In particular, PDPN increases tumor cell clonal capacity, epithelial mesenchymal transition, migration, invasion, metastasis and inflammation. Antibodies, CAR-T cells, biologics and synthetic compounds that target PDPN can inhibit cancer progression and septic inflammation in preclinical models. This review describes recent advances in how PDPN may be used as a biomarker and therapeutic target for many types of cancer, including glioma, squamous cell carcinoma, mesothelioma and melanoma."

"391. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2018 May;16(5):375-386.","The use of chimeric antigen receptor T cells in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","Resistance to conventional lines of therapy develops in approximately 20% of all  patients with lymphoma. These patients have a dismal prognosis, with an expected  median survival of 6.3 months. In recent years, T-cell immunotherapy has demonstrated a remarkable capacity to induce complete and durable clinical responses in patients with chemotherapy-refractory lymphoma. A major contributor  to the success of immunotherapy has been the advent of genetic engineering technologies that introduce a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) into T cells to focus their killing activity on tumor cells. The adoptive transfer of autologous  CAR T-cell products specific for the pan-B-cell antigen CD19 have now received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of relapsed or chemotherapy-resistant B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. This review is designed to showcase the clinical efficacy and unique toxicities of individually  developed CAR T-cell products for the treatment of lymphomas and their evolution  from the laboratory bench to commercialization."

"392. Curr Res Transl Med. 2018 May;66(2):39-42. doi: 10.1016/j.retram.2018.04.003. Epub 2018 Apr 22.","CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing: Fueling the revolution in cancer immunotherapy.","The development of genomic editing technologies expands the landscape of T cell engineering for adoptive cell therapy. Among the multiple tools that can be used, CRISPR/Cas9 has been shown to be relatively easy to use, simple to design and cost effective with highly efficient multiplex genome engineering capabilities. Allogeneic universal chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells can be produced by disrupting T cell receptor (TCR) and beta-2-microglobulin (B2M) in CAR T cells or by directly knocking in a CAR at the disrupted TRAC locus. The anti-tumor function can be further boosted by simultaneous ablation of PD-1 and CTLA-4. The  anti-tumor activities and safety of TCR-transferred T cells can be improved by knocking out endogenous TCR, which avoids the use of affinity-enhanced TCRs that  may lose specificity and cause severe adverse effects. Therefore, CRISPR/Cas9 technology holds enormous promise to advance the field of adoptive cell therapy."

"395. Curr Res Transl Med. 2018 May;66(2):43-49. doi: 10.1016/j.retram.2018.03.005. Epub 2018 Apr 11.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) is the most common hematologic malignancy. More than 20,000 people in United States, more than 37,000 people in Europe and more than 199,000 people worldwide die of NHL every year. Recent advances in immunotherapeutic approaches for cancer have resulted in development of new classes of very effective immunotherapeutic approaches including chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy that are designed to bypass cancer immune evasion. Here, we review recent advances in CAR-T cell therapy for NHL. US food and drug administration (FDA) recently approved axicabtagene ciloleucel (Yescarta) a CD19 CAR T cell therapy for treatment of relapsed refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), high grade lymphoma, and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBCL). Approval of Yescarta and rapid development of other CAR T  cell therapies at various stages of development are opening up the door for a new wave of CAR T cell therapies that will dramatically change the way we treat NHL and hopefully other malignancies in the near future."

"396. Curr Res Transl Med. 2018 May;66(2):53-56. doi: 10.1016/j.retram.2018.03.001. Epub 2018 Apr 4.","Celyads novel CAR T-cell therapy for solid malignancies.","Celyad recently initiated several clinical trials with the CYAD-01 product, a natural killer group 2D (NKG2D)-based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), in both solid and hematologic tumor types. This review discusses the unique properties of CYAD-01, expecting to provide a new paradigm to fight against solid tumors."

"397. Curr Res Transl Med. 2018 May;66(2):50-52. doi: 10.1016/j.retram.2018.03.003. Epub 2018 Apr 3.","Insights into cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity after CD19-specific CAR-T cell therapy.","T-cells engineered to express CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CD19 CAR-T cells) can achieve high response rates in patients with refractory/relapsed (R/R) CD19+ hematologic malignancies. Nonetheless, the efficacy of CD19-specific  CAR-T cell therapy can be offset by significant toxicities, such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity. In this report of our presentation at the 2018 Second French International Symposium on CAR-T cells (CAR-T day), we describe the clinical presentations of CRS and neurotoxicity in a cohort of 133 adults treated with CD19 CAR-T cells at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, and provide insights into the mechanisms contributing to these toxicities."

"398. Cytometry B Clin Cytom. 2018 May;94(3):434-443. doi: 10.1002/cyto.b.21591. Epub 2017 Oct 31.","Early recovery of circulating immature B cells in B-lymphoblastic leukemia patients after CD19 targeted CAR T cell therapy: A pitfall for minimal residual disease detection.","BACKGROUND: CD19-targeted chimeric-antigen receptor-modified T-cells (CAR-T) are  promising in the treatment of refractory B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Minimal residual disease (MRD) detection by multicolor flow cytometry (FCM) is critical to distinguish B-ALL MRD from regenerating, non-neoplastic B-cell populations. METHODS: FCM was performed on samples from 9 patients with B-ALL treated with CAR-T. RESULTS: All 9 patients showed response to CAR-T. Additionally, FCM revealed circulating CD10 + B cells, potentially mimicking MRD. Circulating CD10+ B-cells  were detected in blood from 3 days to 3 months after CAR-T, comprising 73% (median) of B-cells (52-83%, 95%CI). They expressed CD19, CD10, CD20, bright CD9, CD22, CD24, moderate CD38 and dim CD58, but were CD34 (-), with bright CD45 and polyclonal surface light chain immunoglobulin (sIg) expression. A similar CD10 + B-cell subpopulation was detected by marrow FCM, amidst abundant B-cell precursors. CONCLUSIONS: These circulating CD10 + B-cells are compatible with immature B-cells, and are a reflection of B-cell recovery within the marrow. They are immunophenotypically distinguishable from residual B-ALL. Expression of light chain sIg and key surface antigens characterizing regenerating B-cell precursors  can distinguish immature B-cells from B-ALL MRD and prevent misdiagnosis. © 2017  International Clinical Cytometry Society."

"399. Cytotherapy. 2018 May;20(5):623-638. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.12.007. Epub 2018 Apr 10.","Toward precision manufacturing of immunogene T-cell therapies.","Cancer can be effectively targeted using a patients own T cells equipped with synthetic receptors, including chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that redirect and reprogram these lymphocytes to mediate tumor rejection. Over the past two decades, several strategies to manufacture genetically engineered T cells have been proposed, with the goal of generating optimally functional cellular products for adoptive transfer. Based on this work, protocols for manufacturing clinical-grade CAR T cells have been established, but these complex methods have  been used to treat only a few hundred individuals. As CAR T-cell therapy progresses into later-phase clinical trials and becomes an option for more patients, a major consideration for academic institutions and industry is developing robust manufacturing processes that will permit scaling-out production of immunogene T-cell therapies in a reproducible and efficient manner. In this review, we will discuss the steps involved in cell processing, the major obstacles surrounding T-cell manufacturing platforms and the approaches for improving cellular product potency. Finally, we will address the challenges of expanding CAR T-cell therapy to a global patient population."

"400. Cytotherapy. 2018 May;20(5):697-705. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.02.002. Epub 2018 Apr 6.","HBsAg-redirected T cells exhibit antiviral activity in HBV-infected human liver chimeric mice.","BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains incurable. Although HBsAg-specific chimeric antigen receptor (HBsAg-CAR) T cells have been generated, they have not been tested in animal models with authentic HBV infection. METHODS: We generated a novel CAR targeting HBsAg and evaluated its ability to recognize HBV+ cell lines and HBsAg particles in vitro. In vivo, we tested whether human HBsAg-CAR T cells would have efficacy against HBV-infected hepatocytes in human liver chimeric mice. RESULTS: HBsAg-CAR T cells recognized HBV-positive cell lines and HBsAg particles in vitro as judged by cytokine production. However, HBsAg-CAR T cells did not kill HBV-positive cell lines in cytotoxicity assays. Adoptive transfer of HBsAg-CAR T cells into HBV-infected humanized mice resulted in accumulation within the liver and a significant decrease in plasma HBsAg and HBV-DNA levels compared with control mice. Notably, the fraction of HBV core-positive hepatocytes among total human hepatocytes was greatly reduced after HBsAg-CAR T cell treatment, pointing to noncytopathic viral clearance. In agreement, changes  in surrogate human plasma albumin levels were not significantly different between treatment and control groups. CONCLUSIONS: HBsAg-CAR T cells have anti-HBV activity in an authentic preclinical HBV infection model. Our results warrant further preclinical exploration of HBsAg-CAR T cells as immunotherapy for HBV."

"401. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2018 May;18(5):451-461. doi: 10.1080/14737140.2018.1451749. Epub 2018 Mar 16.","CAR T-cell therapy for glioblastoma: ready for the next round of clinical testing?","INTRODUCTION: The outcome for patients with glioblastoma (GBM) remains poor, and  there is an urgent need to develop novel therapeutic approaches. T cells genetically modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) hold the promise to improve outcomes since they recognize and kill cells through different mechanisms than conventional therapeutics. Areas covered: This article reviews CAR design, tumor associated antigens expressed by GBMs that can be targeted with CAR T cells, preclinical and clinical studies conducted with CAR T cells, and genetic approaches to enhance their effector function. Expert commentary: While preclinical studies have highlighted the potent anti-GBM activity of CAR T cells, the initial foray of CAR T-cell therapies into the clinic resulted only in limited benefits for GBM patients. Additional genetic modification of CAR T cells has resulted in a significant increase in their anti-GBM activity in preclinical  models. We are optimistic that clinical testing of these enhanced CAR T cells will be safe and result in improved anti-glioma activity in GBM patients."

"402. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):602-613. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.207. Epub 2018 Apr 16.","Preclinical Efficacy and Safety of CD19CAR Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells Transfected with Sleeping Beauty Transposon for the Treatment of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","Infusion of patient-derived CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells engineered by viral vectors achieved complete remission and durable response in relapsed and refractory (r/r) B-lineage neoplasms. Here, we expand on those findings by providing a preclinical evaluation of allogeneic non-viral cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells transfected with the Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon CD19CAR (CARCIK-CD19). Specifically, thanks to a large-scale 18-day manufacturing process, it was possible to achieve stable CD19CAR expression (62.425 ± 6.399%) and efficient T-cell expansion (23.36 ± 3.00-fold). Frozen/thawed CARCIK-CD19 remained fully functional both in vitro and in an established patient-derived xenograft (PDX) of MLL-ENL rearranged acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). CARCIK-CD19 showed a dose-dependent antitumor response and prolonged persistence in a PDX, bearing the feature of a Philadelphia-like ALL with PAX5/AUTS2 translocation, and in a survival model of lymphoma, achieving complete eradication of disseminated tumors. Finally, the infusion of CARCIK-CD19 proved to be safe and well tolerated in a biodistribution and toxicity model. The infused cells persisted in the hematopoietic and post-injection perfused organs until the end of the study and consisted of CD8+,  CD56+, and CAR+ T cells. Overall, these findings provide important implications for non-viral technology and the proof-of-concept that donor-derived CARCIK-CD19  are indeed effective against relapsed ALL, a possibility that will be tested in Phase I/II clinical trials after allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation."

"403. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):585-601. doi: 10.1089/hum.2018.001.","Effective Targeting of Multiple B-Cell Maturation Antigen-Expressing Hematological Malignances by Anti-B-Cell Maturation Antigen Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells.","B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) expression has been proposed as a marker for the identification of malignant plasma cells in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).  Nearly all MM tumor cells express BCMA, while normal tissue expression is restricted to plasma cells and a subset of mature B cells. Consistent BCMA expression was confirmed on MM biopsies (29/29 BCMA+), and it was further demonstrated that BCMA is expressed in a substantial number of lymphoma samples,  as well as primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells. To target BCMA using redirected autologous T cells, lentiviral vectors (LVV) encoding chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) were constructed with four unique anti-BCMA single-chain variable fragments, fused to the CD137 (4-1BB) co-stimulatory and CD3ζ signaling  domains. One LVV, BB2121, was studied in detail, and BB2121 CAR-transduced T cells (bb2121) exhibited a high frequency of CAR + T cells and robust in vitro activity against MM cell lines, lymphoma cell lines, and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia peripheral blood. Based on receptor quantification, bb2121 recognized tumor cells expressing as little as 222 BCMA molecules per cell. The in vivo pharmacology of anti-BCMA CAR T cells was studied in NSG mouse models of  human MM, Burkitt lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma, where mice received a single intravenous administration of vehicle, control vector-transduced T cells,  or anti-BCMA CAR-transduced T cells. In all models, the vehicle and control CAR T cells failed to inhibit tumor growth. In contrast, treatment with bb2121 resulted in rapid and sustained elimination of the tumors and 100% survival in all treatment models. Together, these data support the further development of anti-BCMA CAR T cells as a potential treatment for not only MM but also some lymphomas."

"404. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):559-568. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.254. Epub 2018 Apr 5.","CAR T Cells in Trials: Recent Achievements and Challenges that Remain in the Production of Modified T Cells for Clinical Applications.","The adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells is attracting growing interest for the treatment of malignant diseases. Early trials with anti-CD19 CAR T cells have achieved spectacular remissions in B-cell leukemia and lymphoma, so far refractory, very recently resulting in the Food and Drug Administration approval of CD19 CAR T cells for therapy. With further applications and increasing numbers of patients, the reproducible manufacture of  high-quality clinical-grade CAR T cells is becoming an ever greater challenge. New processing techniques, quality-control mechanisms, and logistic developments  are required to meet both medical needs and regulatory restrictions. This paper summarizes the state-of-the-art in manufacturing CAR T cells and the current challenges that need to be overcome to implement this type of cell therapy in the treatment of a variety of malignant diseases and in a greater number of patients."

"405. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):626-639. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.241. Epub 2018 Mar 19.","CD33-Specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells with Different Co-Stimulators Showed Potent Anti-Leukemia Efficacy and Different Phenotype.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a kind of a malignant hematologic tumor caused by uncontrolled repopulation of myeloid hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Current therapeutic effects for AML patients are unsatisfactory. In particular, relapsed  and refractory AML still have a poor prognosis. T cells modified by chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) was an immunotherapeutic strategy for malignancies, which  has a broad developing prospect. Most AML cells overexpress the myeloid antigen CD33. Therefore, CD33-specific CAR-T cells with different co-stimulators (CD28, 4-1BB, or both, referred to as CD33 28z.CAR-T cells, CD33 BBz.CAR-T cells, or CD33 28BBz.CAR-T cells, respectively) were developed to evaluate their efficacy against AML. The effectiveness of three types of CD33 CAR-T cells against AML was verified by specific killing effect to AML cells and prolonged survival of a xenograft mouse model. In terms of CAR-T cell efficacy, especially when transfused into human bodies, the persistence of T cells is also an important index, as it is closely associated with the long-term effect of CAR-T cells. Therefore, the characteristics of three types of CD33 CAR-T cells related to the  persistence of T cells were examined. It was found that during expansion, CD33 BBz.CAR-T cells had an increased central memory compartment, while CD33 28z.CAR-T cells were predominantly effector memory T cells. In addition, CD33 28z.CAR-T cells were more inclined to become exhausted. The study suggests that incorporation of 4-1BB in CARs may endow T cells with long-lasting survival ability, thus improving the long-term anti-leukemia effect of CAR-T cells, especially when transfused to the human body."

"406. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):534-546. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.243. Epub 2018 Mar 14.","Preclinical Models in Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T-Cell Therapy.","Cancer immunotherapy has enormous potential in inducing long-term remission in cancer patients, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells have been largely successful in treating hematological malignancies in the clinic. CAR-T therapy has not been as effective in treating solid tumors, in part due to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Additionally, CAR-T therapy can cause dangerous side effects, including off-tumor toxicity, cytokine release syndrome,  and neurotoxicity. Animal models of CAR-T therapy often fail to predict such adverse events and frequently overestimate the efficacy of the treatment. Nearly  all preclinical CAR-T studies have been performed in mice, including syngeneic, xenograft, transgenic, and humanized mouse models. Recently, a few studies have used primate models to mimic clinical side effects better. To date, no single model perfectly recapitulates the human immune system and tumor microenvironment, and some models have revealed CAR-T limitations that were contradicted or missed  entirely in other models. Careful model selection based on the primary goals of the study is a crucial step in evaluating CAR-T treatment. Advancements are being made in preclinical models, with the ultimate objective of providing safer, more  effective CAR-T therapy to patients."

"407. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May;29(5):547-558. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.236. Epub 2018 Feb 27.","Chimeric Antigen Receptors in Different Cell Types: New Vehicles Join the Race.","Adoptive cellular therapy has evolved into a powerful force in the battle against cancer, holding promise for curative responses in patients with advanced and refractory tumors. Autologous T cells, reprogrammed to target malignant cells via the expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) represent the frontrunner in  this approach. Tremendous clinical regressions have been achieved using CAR-T cells against a variety of cancers both in numerous preclinical studies and in several clinical trials, most notably against acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and resulted in a very recent United States Food and Drug Administration approval of  the first CAR-T-cell therapy. In most studies CARs are transferred to conventional αβT cells. Nevertheless, transferring a CAR into different cell types, such as γδT cells, natural killer cells, natural killer T cells, and myeloid cells has yet received relatively little attention, although these cell types possess unique features that may aid in surmounting some of the hurdles CAR-T-cell therapy currently faces. This review focuses on CAR therapy using effectors beyond conventional αβT cells and discusses those strategies against the backdrop of developing a safe, powerful, and durable cancer therapy."

"408. Int J Cancer. 2018 May 1;142(9):1738-1747. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31147. Epub 2017 Nov  27.","Chimeric antigen receptor transduced T cells: Tuning up for the next generation.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has recently achieved impressive clinical outcome in patients with CD19-positive hematologic malignancies. Extrapolation of CAR T cell treatment to solid tumors, however, has not yet yielded similar results. This might be due to intrinsic causes, e.g. insufficient CAR T cell activation or CAR toxicity as well as extrinsic factors displaying an  unfavorable tumor environment for CAR T cells by raising physical and chemical barriers. In this review, we discuss the advantages as well as major obstacles of CAR T cell therapy, particularly in the context of solid tumors, and focus on efforts and novel strategies in CAR T cell development."

"409. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2018 May;16(5S):651-655. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.0048.","Emerging Treatment Options for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Focus on CAR T-Cell  Therapy.","Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases with different morphologic, cytogenetic, and molecular subgroups, some of which have significant therapeutic implications. It typically presents with an aggressive clinical course, and among adults, responds poorly to standard chemotherapy, and carries a high risk for relapse. Despite the significant progress made in inducing remission, frequent relapses remain a challenge. Novel  drugs, such as potent later-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors, antibody-drug  conjugates, bispecific monoclonal antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies, are being investigated in patients with ALL. This summary describes therapies currently approved for the treatment of patients with ALL, identifies emerging targeted immunotherapies for patients with ALL, and discusses adverse events and mechanisms of resistance."

"410. J Thorac Dis. 2018 May;10(5):2779-2788. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2018.04.91.","EphA2 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for the immunotherapy of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.","Background: It is urgent to explore an effective potential therapeutic strategy for ESCC. In recent years, cell-based cancer immunotherapy has become a potentially close for carcinoma therapy. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell technology is a kind of adoptive cell therapy technique which has been developed  rapidly. We sought to obtain EphA2.CAR-T cell and revealed the ability of EphA2.CAR-T cells to kill esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cells in vitro. Methods: Firstly, the expression and location of EphA2 in ESCC tissues and cells  was tested by immunohistochemistry staining and Western blot. Secondly, the second generation of EphA2.CAR was constructed via molecular biology technology,  and transduced into T cells to obtain the EphA2.CAR-T cell. The transduction efficacies were assessed using flow cytometry (FCM). Thirdly, the effect of cell  killing of EphA2.CAR-T cell on ESCC cells in vitro was detected by co-culture experiments. The productions of cytokines (TNF-α and IFN-γ) by EphA2.CAR-T cell after co-culture with ESCC cells were analyzed by ELISA assay. Results: The expression of EphA2 was significantly upregulated in ESCC tissues and cells (P<0.05). EphA2 was expressed on the membrane of ESCC cells, so it could be served as tumor-associated surface antigens (TAA) of CAR for ESCC treatment. The EphA2.CAR-T cell was obtained successfully, and its transduction  efficacies was 61.4% by FCM. The ability of cell killing of EphA2.CAR-T cell was  better than that of T cells (P<0.01), and demonstrated a dose-dependent cell killing. The results of ELISA assay showed that the levels of TNF-α and IFN-γ in  EphA2.CAR-T cells were notably raised compared with T cells (P<0.05). Conclusions: We firstly constructed the second generation of EphA2.CAR and established EphA2.CAR-T cells. The EphA2.CAR-T cells showed a dose-dependent cell killing of ESCC cells, and promoted the production of cytokines in vitro. These findings open a new way for treatment of ESCC by immunotherapy in the future."

"411. J Thorac Dis. 2018 May;10(Suppl 13):S1602-S1614. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2018.05.134.","Vaccine and immune cell therapy in non-small cell lung cancer.","Despite new advances in therapeutics, lung cancer remains the first cause of mortality among different types of malignancies. To improve survival, different strategies have been developed such as chemotherapy combinations, targeted therapies and more recently immunotherapy. Immunotherapy is based on the capability of the immune system to differentiate cancer cells from normal cells to fight against the tumor. The two main checkpoint inhibitors that have been widely studied in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4. However, interactions between tumor and immune system are much more complex with  several different elements that take part and probably many new interactions to be discovered and studied for a better comprehension of those pathways. Vaccines  are part of the prophylaxis and of the treatment for different infectious diseases. For that reason, they have allowed us to improve global survival worldwide. This same idea can be used for cancer treatment. First reports in clinical trials that used therapeutic vaccines in NSCLC were discouraging, but currently vaccines have a new chance in cancer therapy with the identification of new targetable antigens, adjuvant treatments and most interestingly, the combination of vaccines with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 and anti-CTLA-4 drugs. The aim of this article is to describe the scientific evidence that has been reported for the different types of vaccines and their mechanisms of action in the fight against NSCLC tumors to improve disease control."

"412. Leukemia. 2018 May;32(5):1157-1167. doi: 10.1038/s41375-017-0008-6. Epub 2018 Feb 2.","PI3K orchestration of the in vivo persistence of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","In vivo persistence of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells correlates with therapeutic efficacy, yet CAR-specific factors that support persistence are not well resolved. Using a CD33-specific CAR in an acute myeloid  leukemia (AML) model, we show how CAR expression alters T cell differentiation in a ligand independent manner. Ex vivo expanded CAR-T cells demonstrated decreased  naïve and stem memory populations and increased effector subsets relative to vector-transduced control cells. This was associated with reduced in vivo persistence. Decreased persistence was not due to specificity or tumor presence,  but to pre-transfer tonic signaling through the CAR CD3ζ ITAMs. We identified activation of the PI3K pathway in CD33 CAR-T cells as responsible. Treatment with a PI3K inhibitor modulated the differentiation program of CAR-T cells, preserved  a less differentiated state without affecting T cell expansion, and improved in vivo persistence and reduced tumor burden. These results resolve mechanisms by which tonic signaling of CAR-T cells modulates their fate, and identifies a novel pharmacologic approach to enhance the durability of CAR-T cells for immunotherapy."

"413. Leukemia. 2018 May;32(5):1168-1179. doi: 10.1038/s41375-018-0009-0. Epub 2018 Feb 5.","CAR T-cells targeting FLT3 have potent activity against FLT3-ITD+ AML and act synergistically with the FLT3-inhibitor crenolanib.","FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) is a transmembrane protein expressed on normal  hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSC) and retained on malignant blasts in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We engineered CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells expressing a FLT3-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and demonstrate they confer potent  reactivity against AML cell lines and primary AML blasts that express either wild-type FLT3 or FLT3 with internal tandem duplication (FLT3-ITD). We also show  that treatment with the FLT3-inhibitor crenolanib leads to increased surface expression of FLT3 specifically on FLT3-ITD+ AML cells and consecutively, enhanced recognition by FLT3-CAR T-cells in vitro and in vivo. As anticipated, we found that FLT3-CAR T-cells recognize normal HSCs in vitro and in vivo, and disrupt normal hematopoiesis in colony-formation assays, suggesting that adoptive therapy with FLT3-CAR T-cells will require subsequent CAR T-cell depletion and allogeneic HSC transplantation to reconstitute the hematopoietic system. Collectively, our data establish FLT3 as a novel CAR target in AML with particular relevance in high-risk FLT3-ITD+ AML. Further, our data provide the first proof-of-concept that CAR T-cell immunotherapy and small molecule inhibition can be used synergistically, as exemplified by our data showing superior antileukemia efficacy of FLT3-CAR T-cells in combination with crenolanib."

"418. Oncol Lett. 2018 May;15(5):6887-6894. doi: 10.3892/ol.2018.8255. Epub 2018 Mar 13.","Monoclonal antibody 3H11 chimeric antigen receptors enhance T cell effector function and exhibit efficacy against gastric cancer.","Although chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapies for certain types of  solid tumors have been used in clinical trials, novel CARs that are able to target gastric cancer (GC) are still required. In our previous study, monoclonal  antibody 3H11 (mAb 3H11), generated from immunization with five human GC cell lines, was demonstrated to have a 93.5% positive reaction with a clear membrane location and more than 5% cancer cell staining in GC tissues in our previous study. In the present study, 3H11-CARs were designed for modified T cell therapy. To begin with, it was confirmed that the single-chain variable fragment (scFV) of the mAb 3H11, known as scFV-3H11, exhibited similar activity with the natural antibody. In addition, scFV-3H11 CAR-T cells are able to kill tumor cells accompanied with increased interleukin-2 and interferon-γ secretion in vitro, and reduced the tumor burden in GC cell lines and patient-derived GC cells in vivo. In conclusion, scFV-3H11 CARs may have the potential to treat mAb 3H11-positive GC."

"419. Oncotarget. 2018 May 1;9(33):23306-23314. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24623. eCollection 2018 May 1.","Cancer stem cells of hepatocellular carcinoma.","Hepatocellular carcinoma is a malignant tumor arising from hepatocytes. The hepatocellular carcinoma is dictated by a subset of cells with stem cell-like features. These cells are apoptosis-resistant and have particular biomarkers, which serve as seeds in different stages of tumorigenesis including initiation, progression, metastasis, and relapse of hepatocellular carcinoma. Signaling pathways of cancer stem cells are novel targets for the radical intervention of hepatocellular carcinoma."

"420. Trends Cancer. 2018 May;4(5):359-373. doi: 10.1016/j.trecan.2018.03.009. Epub 2018 Apr 17.","Noninvasive PET Imaging of T cells.","The rapidly evolving field of cancer immunotherapy recently saw the approval of several new therapeutic antibodies. Several cell therapies, for example, chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cells (CAR-T), are currently in clinical trials for a variety of cancers and other diseases. However, approaches to monitor changes in the immune status of tumors or to predict therapeutic responses are limited. Monitoring lymphocytes from whole blood or biopsies does not provide dynamic and  spatial information about T cells in heterogeneous tumors. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using probes specific for T cells can noninvasively monitor systemic and intratumoral immune alterations during experimental therapies and may have an important and expanding value in the clinic."

"421. J Immunother Cancer. 2018 Apr 30;6(1):30. doi: 10.1186/s40425-018-0340-z.","Durable regression of Medulloblastoma after regional and intravenous delivery of  anti-HER2 chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","BACKGROUND: Standard-of-care therapies for treating pediatric medulloblastoma have long-term side effects, even in children who are cured. One emerging modality of cancer therapy that could be equally effective without such side effects would be chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. Knowing that human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is overexpressed in many medulloblastomas and has been used as a CAR T target before, we sought to evaluate the efficacy of more sophisticated anti-HER2 CAR T cells, as well as the feasibility and efficacy of different routes of delivering these cells, for the treatment of pediatric medulloblastoma. METHODS: Daoy, D283 and D425 medulloblastoma cell lines were characterized by flow cytometry to evaluate HER2 expression. Anti-tumor efficacy of HER2-BBz-CAR T cells in vitro was performed using cytokine release and immune cytotoxicity assays compared to control CD19 CAR T cells. In vivo, Daoy and D283 tumor cells were orthotopically implanted in the posterior fossa of NOD.Cg-Prkdc scid Il2rg tm1Wjl /SzJ (NSG) mice and treated with regional or intravenous HER2-BBz-CAR T cells or control CD19 CAR T cells. Non-human primates (NHPs) bearing ventricular  and lumbar reservoirs were treated with target autologous cells bearing extracellular HER2 followed by autologous HER2-CAR T cells intraventricularly. Cerebrospinal fluid and blood were collected serially to measure the persistence  of delivered cells and cytokines. RESULTS: HER2-BBz-CAR T cells effectively clear medulloblastoma orthotopically implanted in the posterior fossa of NSG mice via both regional and intravenous delivery in xenograft models. Intravenous delivery requires a log higher dose compared to regional delivery. NHPs tolerated intraventricular delivery of autologous cells bearing extracellular HER2 followed by HER2-BBz-CAR T cells without experiencing any systemic toxicity. CONCLUSIONS: HER2-BBz-CAR T cells show excellent pre-clinical efficacy in vitro and in mouse medulloblastoma models, and their intraventricular delivery is feasible and safe in NHPs. A clinical trial of HER2-BBz-CAR T cells directly delivered into cerebrospinal fluid should be designed for patients with relapsed  medulloblastoma."

"422. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Apr 23;11(1):58. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0600-x.","miR-153 suppresses IDO1 expression and enhances CAR T cell immunotherapy."," BACKGROUND: Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in converting tryptophan to kynurenine. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are T cells with recombinant receptors targeting tumor-associated antigens. The Food and Drug Administration has approved CAR T cells that target CD19 for treatment of advanced B cell leukemia and lymphoma. However, CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors has been hampered by multiple obstacles. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that combinatorial immune checkpoint blockade and IDO1 inhibition provide durable therapeutic efficacy against cancer. Yet, the combination of IDO1 inhibition and CAR T has not been attempted. METHODS: We analyze IDO1 downregulation by miR-153 in colon cancer cells and the  association of IDO1 and miR-153 expression with colorectal patient survival. We generate CAR T cells targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor variant III and measure their tumor killing effects against colon cancer cells with or without miR-153 overexpression by killing assays and in xenografts. RESULTS: IDO1 is highly expressed in colorectal tumors and is inversely associated with patient survival. miR-153 directly inhibits IDO1 expression by targeting its 3 untranslated region in colon cancer cells; yet, miR-153 overexpression does not affect cancer cell survival, apoptosis, and colony formation. When colon cancer cells are targeted by CAR T cells, miR-153 overexpression within tumor cells significantly enhances T cell killing in vitro  and suppresses xenograft tumor growth in mice. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that miR-153 inhibits IDO1 expression in colon cancer cells and is a tumor-suppressive miRNA that enhances CAR T cell immunotherapy. This study supports the combinatorial use of IDO1 inhibitors and CAR T cells in treating solid tumors."

"423. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Apr 20;37(1):86. doi: 10.1186/s13046-018-0751-1.","The perfect personalized cancer therapy: cancer vaccines against neoantigens.","In the advent of Immune Checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) and of CAR-T adoptive T-cells, the new frontier in Oncology is Cancer Immunotherapy because of its ability to provide long term clinical benefit in metastatic disease in several solid and liquid tumor types. It is now clear that ICI acts by unmasking preexisting immune responses as well as by inducing de novo responses against tumor neoantigens. Thanks to theprogress made in genomics technologies and the evolution of bioinformatics, neoantigens represent ideal targets, due to their specific expression in cancer tissue and the potential lack of side effects. In this review, we discuss the promise of preclinical and clinical results with mutation-derived neoantigen cancer vaccines (NCVs) along with the current limitations from bioinformatics prediction to manufacturing an effective new therapeutic approach."

"424. JCI Insight. 2018 Apr 19;3(8). pii: 120505. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.120505. eCollection 2018 Apr 19.","Anti-CD19 CAR T cells with high-dose melphalan and autologous stem cell transplantation for refractory multiple myeloma."," BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma is usually fatal due to serial relapses that become  progressively refractory to therapy. CD19 is typically absent on the dominant multiple myeloma cell population but may be present on minor subsets with unique  myeloma-propagating properties. To target myeloma-propagating cells, we clinically evaluated autologous T cells transduced with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against CD19 (CTL019). METHODS: Subjects received CTL019 following salvage high-dose melphalan and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). All subjects had relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma and had previously undergone ASCT with less than 1 year progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: ASCT + CTL019 was safe and feasible, with most toxicity attributable to  ASCT and no severe cytokine release syndrome. Two of 10 subjects exhibited significantly longer PFS after ASCT + CTL019 compared with prior ASCT (479 vs. 181 days; 249 vs. 127 days). Correlates of favorable clinical outcome included peak CTL019 frequency in bone marrow and emergence of humoral and cellular immune responses against the stem-cell antigen Sox2. Ex vivo treatment of primary myeloma samples with a combination of CTL019 and CAR T cells against the plasma cell antigen BCMA reliably inhibited myeloma colony formation in vitro, whereas treatment with either CAR alone inhibited colony formation inconsistently. CONCLUSION: CTL019 may improve duration of response to standard multiple myeloma  therapies by targeting and precipitating secondary immune responses against myeloma-propagating cells. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02135406. FUNDING: Novartis, NIH, Conquer Cancer Foundation."

"425. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2018 Apr 18;20(5):14. doi: 10.1007/s11940-018-0499-0.","Quo Vadis-Do Immunotherapies Have a Role in Glioblastoma?","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: More effective therapies for glioblastoma are urgently needed. Immunotherapeutic strategies appear particularly promising and are therefore intensively studied. This article reviews the current understanding of the immunosuppressive glioblastoma microenvironment, discusses the rationale behind various immunotherapies, and outlines the findings of several recently published  clinical studies. RECENT FINDINGS: The results of CheckMate-143 indicated that nivolumab is not superior to bevacizumab in patients with recurrent glioblastoma. A first-in man exploratory study evaluating EGFRvIII-specific CAR T cells for patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma demonstrated overall safety of CAR T cell therapy and effective target recognition. A pilot study evaluating treatment with adoptively transferred CMV-specific T cells combined with a CMV-specific DC vaccine was found to be safe and resulted in increased polyclonality of CMV-specific T cells in vivo. Despite the success of immunotherapies in many cancers, clinical evidence supporting their efficacy for patients with glioblastoma is still lacking. Nevertheless, the recently published studies provide important proof-of-concept in several areas of immunotherapy research. The careful and critical interpretation of these results will enhance our understanding of the opportunities and challenges of immunotherapies for high-grade gliomas and improve the immunotherapeutic strategies investigated in future clinical trials."

"426. Biochem Soc Trans. 2018 Apr 17;46(2):391-401. doi: 10.1042/BST20170178. Epub 2018 Mar 14.","Logic-gated approaches to extend the utility of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell  technology.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy has been clinically validated as a curative treatment for the difficult to treat malignancies of relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and lymphoma. Here, the CAR-T cells are re-directed towards a single antigen, CD19, which is recognised as a virtually ideal CAR target antigen because it has strong, uniform expression on cancer cells, and is otherwise expressed only on healthy B cells, which are dispensable. Notwithstanding the clinical success of CD19-CAR-T cell therapy, its single specificity has driven therapeutic resistance in 30% or more of cases  with CD19-negative leukaemic relapses. Immune checkpoint blockade is also a highly successful cancer immunotherapeutic approach, but it will be less useful for many patients whose malignancies either lack a substantial somatic mutation load or whose tumours are intrinsically resistant. Although CAR-T cell therapy could serve this unmet medical need, it is beset by several major limitations. There is a lack of candidate antigens that would satisfy the requirements for ideal CAR targets. Biological properties such as clonal heterogeneity and micro-environmental conditions hostile to T cells are inherent to many solid tumours. Past clinical studies indicate that on-target, off-tumour toxicities of  CAR-T cell therapy may severely hamper its application. Therefore, re-designing CARs to increase the number of antigen specificities recognised by CAR-T cells will broaden tumour antigen coverage, potentially overcoming tumour heterogeneity and limiting tumour antigen escape. Tuning the balance of signalling within bi-specific CAR-T cells may enable tumour targeting while sparing normal tissues, and thus minimise on-target, off-tumour toxicities."

"427. Med Oncol. 2018 Apr 12;35(5):70. doi: 10.1007/s12032-018-1131-6.","Prospects of chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in ovarian cancer.","Despite advances in various chemotherapy regimens, current therapeutic options are limited for ovarian cancer patients. Immunotherapy provides a promising and novel treatment option for ovarian cancer. Recently, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has shown promising results in hematological tumors and current research is going on in various solid tumors like ovarian cancer. CAR T cells are genetically engineered T cells with major histocompatibility complex-independent, tumor-specific, immune-mediated cytolytic actions against cancer cells. Initial studies of CAR T cell therapy have shown promising results  in ovarian cancer, but there are some obstacles like impaired T cell trafficking, lack of antigenic targets, cytokine release syndrome and most important immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Optimization of design, improving tumor microenvironment and combinations with other therapies may help us in improving CAR T cell efficacy. In this review article, we highlight the current knowledge regarding CAR T cell therapy in ovarian cancer. We have discussed basic functioning of CAR T cells, their rationale and clinical outcome in ovarian cancer with limitations."

"428. JCI Insight. 2018 Apr 5;3(7). pii: 99573. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.99573. eCollection 2018 Apr 5.","Pancreatic cancer therapy with combined mesothelin-redirected chimeric antigen receptor T cells and cytokine-armed oncolytic adenoviruses.","Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is characterized by its highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that limits T cell infiltration and induces T cell hypofunction. Mesothelin-redirected chimeric antigen receptor  T cell (meso-CAR T cell) therapy has shown some efficacy in clinical trials but antitumor efficacy remains modest. We hypothesized that combined meso-CAR T cells with an oncolytic adenovirus expressing TNF-α and IL-2 (Ad5/3-E2F-D24-TNFa-IRES-IL2, or OAd-TNFa-IL2) would improve efficacy. OAd-TNFa-IL2 enhanced the antitumor efficacy of meso-CAR T cells in human-PDA-xenograft immunodeficient mice and efficacy was associated with robustly increased tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), enhanced and prolonged  T cell function. Mice treated with parental OAd combined with meso-CAR T developed tumor metastasis to the lungs even if primary tumors were controlled. However, no mice treated with combined OAd-TNFa-IL2 and meso-CAR T died of tumor  metastasis. We also evaluated this approach in a syngeneic mouse tumor model by combining adenovirus expressing murine TNF-α and IL-2 (Ad-mTNFa-mIL2) and mouse CAR T cells. This approach induced significant tumor regression in mice engrafted with highly aggressive and immunosuppressive PDA tumors. Ad-mTNFa-mIL2 increased  both CAR T cell and host T cell infiltration to the tumor and altered host tumor  immune status with M1 polarization of macrophages and increased dendritic cell maturation. These findings indicate that combining cytokine-armed oncolytic adenovirus to enhance the efficacy of CAR T cell therapy is a promising approach  to overcome the immunosuppressive TME for the treatment of PDA."

"429. Mol Ther. 2018 Apr 4;26(4):976-985. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.01.022. Epub 2018 Feb 2.","In Vivo Expansion and Antitumor Activity of Coinfused CD28- and 4-1BB-Engineered  CAR-T Cells in Patients with B Cell Leukemia.","Several recent clinical trials have successfully incorporated a costimulatory domain derived from either CD28 or 4-1BB with the original CD3ζ T cell activating domain to form second-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that can increase the responsiveness and survival of CAR-engineered T (CAR-T) cells. However, a rigorous assessment of the individual benefits of these costimulatory  components relative to the in vivo performance of infused T cells in patients is  still lacking. Therefore, we have designed a study that allows us to investigate  and compare the impact of different costimulatory signal domains on CAR-T cells in vivo. Patients with B cell leukemia were infused with a mixture of two types of CD19-specific CAR-T cells, individually bearing CD28 (28ζ) and 4-1BB (BBζ) costimulatory signaling domains. We found that such a clinical procedure was feasible and safe. Complete remission (CR) was observed in five of seven enrolled patients, with two patients exhibiting durable CR lasting more than 15 months. The in vivo expansion pattern of 28ζ and BBζ CAR-T cells varied significantly among individual patients. These results confirm a feasible method of comparing different CAR designs within individual patients, potentially offering objective  insights that may facilitate the development of optimal CAR-T cell-based immunotherapies."

"430. Mol Ther. 2018 Apr 4;26(4):963-975. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.01.020. Epub 2018 Mar 2.","Immunological Synapse Predicts Effectiveness of Chimeric Antigen Receptor Cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cell therapy has the potential to improve the overall survival of patients with malignancies by enhancing the effectiveness of CAR T cells. Precisely predicting the effectiveness of various CAR T cells represents one of todays key unsolved problems in immunotherapy. Here, we predict the effectiveness of CAR-modified cells by evaluating the quality of the CAR-mediated immunological synapse (IS) by quantitation of F-actin, clustering of tumor antigen, polarization of lytic granules (LGs), and distribution of key signaling molecules within the IS. Long-term killing capability, but not secretion of conventional cytokines or standard 4-hr cytotoxicity, correlates positively with the quality of the IS in two different CAR T cells that share identical antigen specificity. Xenograft model data confirm that the quality of the IS in vitro correlates positively with performance of CAR-modified immune cells in vivo. Therefore, we propose that the  quality of the IS predicts the effectiveness of CAR-modified immune cells, which  provides a novel strategy to guide CAR therapy."

"431. Mol Ther. 2018 Apr 4;26(4):986-995. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.02.001. Epub 2018 Feb 8.","Adoptive Transfer of IL13Rα2-Specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells Creates a Pro-inflammatory Environment in Glioblastoma.","In order to fully harness the potential of immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells, pre-clinical studies must be conducted in immunocompetent animal models that closely mimic the immunosuppressive malignant  glioma (MG) microenvironment. Thus, the goal of this project was to study the in vivo fate of T cells expressing CARs specific for the MG antigen IL13Rα2 (IL13Rα2-CARs) in immunocompetent MG models. Murine T cells expressing IL13Rα2-CARs with a CD28.ζ (IL13Rα2-CAR.CD28.ζ) or truncated signaling domain (IL13Rα2-CAR.Δ) were generated by retroviral transduction, and their effector function was evaluated both in vitro and in vivo. IL13Rα2-CAR.CD28.ζ T cells specificity toward IL13Rα2 was confirmed through cytokine production and cytolytic activity. In vivo, a single intratumoral injection of IL13Rα2-CAR.CD28.ζ T cells significantly extended the survival of IL13Rα2-expressing GL261 and SMA560 glioma-bearing mice; long-term survivors were resistant to re-challenge with IL13Rα2-negative and IL13Rα2-positive tumors. IL13Rα2-CAR.CD28.ζ T cells proliferated, produced cytokines (IFNγ, TNF-α), and promoted a phenotypically pro-inflammatory glioma microenvironment by inducing a  significant increase in the number of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and CD8α+ dendritic cells and a decrease in Ly6G+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Our data  underline the significance of CAR T cell studies in immunocompetent hosts and further validate IL13Rα2-CAR T cells as an efficacious therapeutic strategy for MG."

"432. Onco Targets Ther. 2018 Apr 3;11:1767-1776. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S154853. eCollection 2018.","Metformin inhibits proliferation and cytotoxicity and induces apoptosis via AMPK  pathway in CD19-chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","Background: CD19-chimericantigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells (CD19-CAR T cells) have been well documented to possess potent anti-tumor properties against  CD19-expressingleukemia cells. As a traditional medicine, metformin has been widely used to treat type II diabetes mellitus and more recently has become a candidate for the treatment of cancer. However, no report has revealed the direct effect of metformin on CD19-CAR T cell biological function and its underling mechanisms. Purpose: The purpose of this research was to explore the effect of metformin on CD19-CAR T cell biological function and the mechanisms involved. Methods: CD19-CAR T cells proliferation, apoptosis and cytotoxicity were mainly tested by CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry and ELISA. The detection of mechanism primarily used western blot. Bioluminescence imaging is the main application technology of animal studies. Results: In the current study, it was found that metformin inhibited CD19-CAR T cell proliferation and cytotoxicity and induced apoptosis. Furthermore, our study revealed that metformin activated AMPK and suppressed mTOR and HIF1α expression.  By using an AMPK inhibitor, compound C, we demonstrated the crucial roles of AMPK in CD19-CAR T cells when they were treated with metformin. Finally, we verified that metformin suppressed the cytotoxicity of CD19-CAR T cell in vivo. Conclusion: Taken together, these results indicated that metformin may play an important role in modulating CD19-CAR T cell biological functions in an AMPK-dependent and mTOR/HIF1α-independent manner."

"433. Acta Naturae. 2018 Apr-Jun;10(2):16-23.","Molecular Approaches to Safe and Controlled Engineered T-cell Therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell therapy (CAR-T therapy) is one of the fastest developing areas of immuno-oncology. Over the past decade, it has revolutionized the cell therapy modality and expedited its pace of development, from optimization of the structure of chimeric antigen receptors and animal model experiments to successful clinical application. The initial designs of the CAR configuration focused on increasing T-cell activation, cytotoxicity, and persistence. However, the first attempts to treat patients with CAR T cells have  demonstrated the need for increased safety and controlled activation of genetically modified T cells. Herein, we summarize the different molecular approaches to engineering chimeric antigen receptors for reducing the potential clinical risks of T-cell therapy."

"434. Biochim Biophys Acta Rev Cancer. 2018 Apr;1869(2):200-215. doi: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2018.01.005. Epub 2018 Jan 31.","Reformation in chimeric antigen receptor based cancer immunotherapy: Redirecting  natural killer cell.","Natural killer (NK) cells are an important subset of lymphocytes which play a critical role in host immunity against cancers. With MHC-independent recognition, short lifespan and potent cytotoxicity, NK cells make a promising candidate for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered cancer immunotherapy. Due to innate biological properties of NK cells, CAR-NK may outperform CAR-T therapy in terms of less side effects and more universal access, which may become a great reformation in CAR-based cancer immunotherapy. The CARs used in peripheral blood  (PB) NK cells as well as NK cell line like NK-92 are the most important outfits defining antigenic specificity. The constructs of CARs used in NK cells from different sources vary, which all undergo generational optimization. The anti-tumor effects of CAR-NK have been validated in numerous preclinical trials for cancers, including hematologic malignancies and many solid tumors, which provide evidence for potential clinical application of CAR-NK. Additionally, this review concludes the challenges faced in the application of CAR-NK. Although CAR-NK is considered as one of the most possible off-the-shelf products, the improvement for the efficiency of expansion and transduction as well as the solution for underlying safety issues is still needed. Possible coping strategies for challenges and upgrades in techniques are also highlighted for future development in CAR-NK cancer immunotherapy."

"437. Cancer Treat Rev. 2018 Apr;65:87-95. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.04.002. Epub 2018 Apr 4.","Bispecific antibodies in haematological malignancies.","Bispecific antibodies (bsAbs) combine the binding sites of two monoclonal antibodies in one molecule. The close proximity of a tumor specific antigen and an effector cell antigen results in a targeted activation of effector cells. The  mechanism is similar to the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells, recently approved in two haematologic cancers. CAR T-cells and bsAb represent the most powerful tools for major-histocompatibility complex (MHC) independent T-cell immune response against cancer. In contrast to CAR T-cells, bsAbs are off the shelf drugs. As a drawback, the efficacy is dependent on a prolonged application. More than 40 years of intensive research generate a plethora of bispecific constructs with a remarkable difference in manufacturability, stability, half-life time and receptor affinity. Blinatumomab was the first approved bsAb in relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia. By the mature experience of blinatumomab in more than 10 clinical trials over more than  one decade, we learned some lessons on how to use this new principle. The efficacy is higher in patients with less tumor burden, suggesting the use as consolidation more than for initial debulking. Main resistance mechanisms are extramedullary relapses and the expression of the inhibitory PD-L1 molecule, suggesting the value of combination with checkpoint inhibitors. CD19 loss is infrequent after blinatumomab, preserving the option for alternative CD19-direct  treatments. New bsAbs in lymphoma, myeloma and acute myeloid leukemia enter phase-I trials, together with many new constructs in solid cancer."

"438. Chin Clin Oncol. 2018 Apr;7(2):21. doi: 10.21037/cco.2018.04.02.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells, a savior with a high price.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells represent a medical and scientific breakthrough that may represent a paradigm for the future of personalized medicine in the age of cancer immunotherapy. As with many new cancer agents, such novel and incredible results come with a high price. At the time of the writing of this article, there are two CAR T cells available, Kymriah, produced by Novrtis with a price tag of US$475,000 and Yescarta produced by Gilead Pharmaceuticals with a price tag of US$373,000, neither price including the required hospital admission in order to administer the agent in addition to potential treatment of side effects. There are several issues that are imperative to recognize when understanding the high cost, however the two more pertinent issues are low availability of the agent and no billing code. While only approved for less than a year, there are thoughts about how to bring the price down with more approved CAR T cells and more center with the ability to administer this therapy, however results may be years away before they are realized. In the short term, insurance companies are grappling over how to pay for CAR T therapy, with one of the biggest voids concerning the absence of a billing code for CAR T cells. Regardless, its high price tag highlights moral issues underlying value-based payments and whether the treatment is worth the cost while evaluating the juxtaposition of life years and monetary values. As CAR T cells expand the boundaries of immunotherapy with extraordinary results, the need for a lower price in combination for more availability of CAR T cells will grow until some of these fundamental issues are addressed."

"439. Chin Clin Oncol. 2018 Apr;7(2):14. doi: 10.21037/cco.2018.04.06.","Emerging role of immunotherapy for childhood cancers.","Recent developments in cell and gene therapy have a great impact on the new therapeutic approaches in pediatric cancers. Monoclonal antibodies for neuroblastoma and bispecific antibodies for leukemia have induced significant clinical responses for otherwise chemorefractory patients. Moreover, cellular therapeutic approaches including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells as well  as natural killer (NK) cells have the potential to cure patients with so far incurable malignancies and are the basis for future new therapies for pediatric cancer. Newer generations of cellular therapies, further development and improvement of such new strategies and their earlier use in therapeutic strategies will hopefully allow to significantly reduce the chemotherapeutic burden for children with cancer while increasing the cure rate."

"440. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2018 Apr;103(4):540-544. doi: 10.1002/cpt.985.","Rapid Advances in Immunotherapy to Treat Cancer.","Immunotherapy is now the fourth pillar of cancer therapy, with surgery, radiation, and traditional chemotherapy being the remaining pillars. Over the past decade, enthusiasm for immunotherapy has increased because of, in part, data showing that it consistently improves overall survival in select patients with historically refractory cancers. This issue covers various aspects of immunotherapy ranging from use of 1) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to treat patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia; 2) population pharmacokinetic/dynamic modeling to develop new immune checkpoint inhibitors; and 3) simulations of existing population pharmacokinetic models of immunotherapy to  minimize waste without compromising exposure and efficacy."

"441. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2018 Apr;103(4):591-598. doi: 10.1002/cpt.950. Epub 2017 Dec 20.","The Evolution and Future of CAR T Cells for B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","Several CAR T designs with CD19 specificity have been associated with consistent  responses in clinical trials with complete remission (CR) rates ranging from 70-90%. Relevant challenges remain to be addressed, such as production time, early loss of CAR T cells, relapse due to loss of the target antigen, and prevention of severe cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity. This review describes constructs, clinical trial results, side effects, and future direction  of CAR T-cell therapy in B-ALL."

"442. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Apr;13(2):125-134. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0444-z.","Value-Based Care in Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation and Cellular Therapy: Challenges and Opportunities.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Improved tolerability and outcomes after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), along with the availability of alternative donors, have expanded its use. With this growth, and the development of additional cellular therapies, we also aim to increase effectiveness, efficiency, and the quality of  the care provided. Fundamentally, the goal of value-based care is to have better  health outcomes with streamlined processes, improved patient experience, and lower costs for both the patients and the health care system. HCT and cellular therapy treatments are multiphase treatments which allow for interventions at each juncture. RECENT FINDINGS: We present a summary of the current literature with focus on program structure and overall system capacity, coordination of therapy across providers, standardization across institutions, diversity and disparities in care, patient quality of life, and cost implications. Each of these topics provides challenges and opportunities to improve value-based care for HCT and cellular therapy patients."

"443. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2018 Apr;13(2):100-108. doi: 10.1007/s11899-018-0442-1.","Recent Developments in Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology is a relatively new  field encompassing research in the unique pathophysiology, clinical care, and psychosocial issues facing patients between the ages of 15 and 40 with cancer. About 100,000 of the approximately 1.5 million people diagnosed annually with cancer in the USA are in this age range. This chapter will review notable new developments in the care of adolescents and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) within the last 3 years. RECENT FINDINGS: The preponderance of data favors the treatment of AYA ALL patients with pediatric-inspired treatment regimens due to better relapse-free and overall survival. Minimal residual disease (MRD) measurement is emerging as an important prognostic factor and can serve as a new measure of efficacy of the  addition of novel therapies to the treatment of patients with new diagnoses. There have been several treatment advances ranging from new cytotoxic agents for  ALL to new antibody-based therapy to novel immune therapies such as CAR-T cells.  The care of AYA ALL patients is improving as the unique issues for this patient population are addressed."

"444. Curr Opin Immunol. 2018 Apr;51:197-203. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2018.04.007. Epub 2018 May 2.","Adoptive T cell therapy: points to consider.","Adoptive Cell Therapy (ACT) has enjoyed a revival in recent years with the approval of CAR T cells for the treatment of patients with B cell malignancies. Advancing the use of adoptively transferred T cells for the treatment of patients with solid tumor and other hematologic malignancies however, will require addressing numerous effector cell intrinsic as well as tumor micro environmental  hurdles and exploiting a broader ACT platform that includes not only engineered CAR-T cells, but also other forms of ACT including Endogenous T Cell (ETC) and Tumor-infiltrating Lymphocyte (TIL) therapy. In this review, we open this discussion with some points to consider as a starting point for envisioning more effective strategies that are now feasible because of recent discoveries In  immune resistance and the development of enabling technologies to harness the power of tumor - reactive T cells for adoptive cell therapy."

"445. Curr Opin Immunol. 2018 Apr;51:103-110. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2018.03.002. Epub 2018 Mar 16.","Driving CARs on the uneven road of antigen heterogeneity in solid tumors.","Uniform and strong expression of CD19, a cell surface antigen, on cells of B-cell lineage is unique to hematologic malignancies. Tumor-associated antigen (TAA) targets in solid tumors exhibit heterogeneity with regards to intensity and distribution, posing a challenge for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. Novel CAR designs, such as dual TAA-targeted CARs, tandem CARs, and switchable CARs, in conjunction with inhibitory CARs, are being investigated as means to overcome antigen heterogeneity. In addition to heterogeneity in cancer-cell antigen expression, the key determinants for antitumor responses are  CAR expression levels and affinity in T cells. Herein, we review CAR T-cell therapy clinical trials for patients with lung or pancreatic cancers, and provide detailed translational strategies to overcome antigen heterogeneity."

"446. Cytotherapy. 2018 Apr;20(4):507-520. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.10.001. Epub 2018 Feb 21.","A new approach to CAR T-cell gene engineering and cultivation using piggyBac transposon in the presence of IL-4, IL-7 and IL-21.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Clinical-grade chimeric antigenic receptor (CAR)19 T cells are routinely manufactured by lentiviral/retroviral (LV/RV) transduction of an anti-CD3/CD28 activated T cells, which are then propagated in a culture medium supplemented with interleukin (IL)-2. The use of LV/RVs for T-cell modification represents a manufacturing challenge due to the complexity of the transduction approach and the necessity of thorough quality control. METHODS: We present here a significantly improved protocol for CAR19 T-cell manufacture that is based on the electroporation of peripheral blood mononuclear  cells with plasmid DNA encoding the piggyBac transposon/transposase vectors and their cultivation in the presence of cytokines IL-4, IL-7 and IL-21. RESULTS: We found that activation of the CAR receptor by either its cognate ligand (i.e., CD19 expressed on the surface of B cells) or anti-CAR antibody, followed by cultivation in the presence of cytokines IL-4 and IL-7, enables strong and highly selective expansion of functional CAR19 T cells, resulting in >90% CAR+ T cells. Addition of cytokine IL-21 to the mixture of IL-4 and IL-7 supported development of immature CAR19 T cells with central memory and stem cell memory phenotypes and expressing very low amounts of inhibitory receptors PD-1, LAG-3 and TIM-3. CONCLUSIONS: Our protocol provides a simple and cost-effective method for engineering high-quality T cells for adoptive therapies."

"447. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Apr;18(4):359-367. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1425679. Epub 2018 Jan 10.","Reprogramming T-cells for adoptive immunotherapy of ovarian cancer.","INTRODUCTION: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the most common cause of death among gynecological malignancies. Despite surgical and pharmacological efforts to improve patients outcome, persistent and recurrent EOC remains an un-eradicable  disease. Chimeric associated antigens (CAR) T cells are T lymphocytes expressing  an engineered T cell receptor that activate the immune response after an MHC unrestricted recognition of specific antigens, including tumor associated antigens (TAAs). CART cells have been shown to be effective in the treatment of hematologic tumors even if frequently associated with potentially severe toxicity and high production costs. AREAS COVERED: In this review, we will focus on preclinical and clinical studies  evaluating CART activity in EOC in order to identify possible difficulties and advantages of their use in this particular setting. EXPERT OPINION: The pattern of diffusion within the peritoneal cavity, the tumor  microenvironment and the high rate of TAAs make EOC a particularly interesting model for CART cells use. Data from preclinical studies indicate a potential activity of CARTs in EOC, but robust clinical data are still awaited. Further studies are needed to determine the best methods of administration and the most effective CAR type to treat EOC patients."

"448. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Apr 1;36(10):1020-1044. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2017.77.0446. Epub 2018 Jan 30.","Clinical Cancer Advances 2018: Annual Report on Progress Against Cancer From the  American Society of Clinical Oncology.","A MESSAGE FROM ASCOS PRESIDENT I remember when ASCO first conceived of publishing an annual report on the most transformative research occurring in cancer care. Thirteen reports later, the progress we have chronicled is remarkable, and this year is no different. The research featured in ASCOs Clinical Cancer Advances 2018 report underscores the impressive gains in our understanding of cancer and in our ability to tailor treatments to tumors genetic makeup. The ASCO 2018 Advance of the Year, adoptive cell immunotherapy, allows clinicians to genetically reprogram patients own immune cells to find and attack cancer cells throughout the body. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy-a type of adoptive cell immunotherapy-has led to remarkable results in young patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and in adults with lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Researchers are also exploring this approach in other types of cancer. This advance would not be possible without robust federal  investment in cancer research. The first clinical trial of CAR T-cell therapy in  children with ALL was funded, in part, by grants from the National Cancer Institute (NCI), and researchers at the NCI Center for Cancer Research were the first to report on possible CAR T-cell therapy for multiple myeloma. These discoveries follow decades of prior research on immunology and cancer biology, much of which was supported by federal dollars. In fact, many advances that are highlighted in the 2018 Clinical Cancer Advances report were made possible thanks to our nations support for biomedical research. Funding from the US National Institutes of Health and the NCI helps researchers pursue critical patient care questions and addresses vital, unmet needs that private industry has little incentive to take on. Federally supported cancer research generates the biomedical innovations that fuel the development and availability of new and improved treatments for patients. We need sustained federal research investment to accelerate the discovery of the next generation of cancer treatments. Another  major trend in this years report is progress in precision medicine approaches to treat cancer. Although precision medicine offers promise to people with cancer and their families, that promise is only as good as our ability to make these treatments available to all patients. My presidential theme, Delivering Discoveries: Expanding the Reach of Precision Medicine, focuses on tackling this formidable challenge so that new targeted therapies are accessible to anyone who  faces a cancer diagnosis. By improving access to high-quality care, harnessing big data on patient outcomes from across the globe, and pursuing innovative clinical trials, I am optimistic that we will speed the delivery of these most promising treatments to more patients. Sincerely, Bruce E. Johnson, FASCO ASCO President, 2017 to 2018."

"449. J Immunother. 2018 Apr;41(3):130-140. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000203.","Preclinical Assessment of CAR T-Cell Therapy Targeting the Tumor Antigen 5T4 in Ovarian Cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells represent a novel targeted approach to overcome both quantitative and qualitative shortfalls of the host immune system relating to the detection and subsequent destruction of tumors. The identification of antigens expressed specifically on the surface of tumor cells is a critical first step in the ability to utilize CAR T cells for the treatment  of cancer. The 5T4 is a tumor-associated antigen which is expressed on the cell surface of most solid tumors including ovarian cancer. Matched blood and tumor samples were collected from 12 patients with ovarian cancer; all tumors were positive for 5T4 expression by immunohistochemistry. Patient T cells were effectively transduced with 2 different anti-5T4 CAR constructs which differed in their affinity for the target antigen. Co-culture of CAR T cells with matched autologous tumor disaggregates resulted in antigen-specific secretion of IFN-gamma. Furthermore, assessment of the efficacy of anti-5T4 CAR T cells in a mouse model resulted in therapeutic benefit against established ovarian tumors. These results demonstrate proof of principle that 5T4 is an attractive target for immune intervention in ovarian cancer and that patient T cells engineered to express a 5T4-specific CAR can recognize and respond physiologically to autologous tumor cells."

"450. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Apr;97(16):e0455. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010455.","Arthritis of large joints shown as a rare clinical feature of cytokine release syndrome after chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy: A case report."," RATIONALE: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy is a novel type of therapy that is being used in an increasing number of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is the most common  complication following CAR-T treatment, but the current understanding of the clinical manifestations and pathogenesis of CRS is still limited. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 34-year-old male patient was diagnosed with ALL in June 2015. Complete remission (CR) was achieved after induction chemotherapy. The patient received 8 cycles of consolidation chemotherapy to maintain CR. In May 2017, the  patient had recurrent ALL. Induction chemotherapy was given again, but without remission. In October 2017, CAR-T cell therapy was given. On October 14, the patient was pretreated with an FC regimen (fludarabine phosphate 50 mg qd on days 1-3; cyclophosphamide 0.4 g qd on days 1-3). CAR-T cells were infused on October  19 and October 20, with the number of infused cells at 2 × 10/kg and 1 × 10/kg, respectively. On October 25, the patient had a high fever, swelling, and pain in  the large joints of the limbs, and joint effusion. DIAGNOSIS: This patient was diagnosed with relapsed ALL, and he developed CRS after CAR-T therapy. INTERVENTIONS: Tacilizumab (400 mg) was infused after CRS was diagnosed, and another dose of tacilizumab (240 mg) was given 6 days later. The pain was also treated with an analgesic drug. Methylprednisolone (1 mg/kg) was given to treat arthritis of the large joints. OUTCOMES: The patients temperature was back to normal within 1 hour following the treatment of tacilizumab, but the pain in the large joints was progressively  aggravated. The joint swelling and pain were obviously alleviated after the treatment of methylprednisolone, and the joint mobility was gradually recovered. LESSONS: CRS after CAR-T therapy can manifest as a high fever with swelling and pain in the large joints of the limbs, similar to rheumatoid arthritis. Tocilizumab can lower the body temperature, but it has no significant effect on arthritis. Glucocorticoids can rapidly alleviate joint swelling and pain."

"453. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Apr;26(2):626-630. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2018.02.054.","[Current Status and Challenges of CAR-T Immunotherapy in Hematologic Malignancies -Review].","The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has gradually became a new trend in the treatment of refractory and relapsed hematologic malignancies by developing for 30 years. With the exciting development of genetic engineering, CAR-T technology has subjected to 4 generations of innovation. Structure of CAR-T started from a single signal molecule to 2 or more than 2 co-stimulatory molecules, and then coding the CAR gene or promoter. CAR-T can specifically recognize tumor antigens, and does not be restricted by major histocompatibility  complex (MHC), thus making a breakthrough in clinical treatment. In this review,  the history, structure and mechanism of action of CAR-T, as well as the current status and challenges of CAR-T immunotherapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia and multiple myeloma are summarized."

"454. J Control Release. 2018 Mar 28;274:24-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.01.028. Epub 2018 Jan 31.","Multifunctional nanoparticles for cancer immunotherapy: A groundbreaking approach for reprogramming malfunctioned tumor environment.","Several cancer immunotherapy approaches have been recently introduced into the clinics and they have shown remarkable therapeutic potentials. The groundbreaking cancer immunotherapeutic agents function as a stimulant or modulator of the body  immune system to fight against or kill cancers. Although targeted immunotherapies such as immune check point inhibitors (CTLA-4 or PD-1/PD-L1), DNA vaccination and CAR-T therapy are revolutionizing cancer treatment, the delivery efficacy can be  further improved while their off-target toxicity can be mitigated through nanotechnology approaches. Recent research has demonstrated that nanotechnology has multifaceted role for (i) reeducating tumor associated macrophages (TAM) to function as tumor suppressor agent, (ii) serving as an efficient alternative for  Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR)-T cell generation and transduction, and (iii) selective knockdown of Kras oncogene addiction by nano-Crisper-Cas9 delivery system. The function of host immune stimulatory signals and tumor immunotherapies can further be improved by repurposing of nanomedicine platform. This review summarizes the role of multifunctional polymeric, lipid, metallic and cell based  nanoparticles for improving current immunotherapy."

"455. Neuro Oncol. 2018 Mar 27;20(4):506-518. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/nox182.","Trivalent CAR T cells overcome interpatient antigenic variability in glioblastoma.","Background: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary malignant brain cancer, and is currently incurable. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown promise in GBM treatment. While we have shown that combinatorial targeting of 2 glioma antigens offsets antigen escape and enhances T-cell effector functions, the interpatient variability in surface antigen expression between patients hinders the clinical impact of targeting 2 antigen pairs. This study addresses targeting 3 antigens using a single CAR T-cell product for broader application. Methods: We analyzed the surface expression of 3 targetable glioma antigens (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 [HER2], interleukin-13 receptor subunit alpha-2 [IL13Rα2], and ephrin-A2 [EphA2]) in 15 primary GBM samples. Accordingly, we created a trivalent T-cell product armed with 3 CAR molecules specific for these validated targets encoded by a single universal (U) tricistronic transgene  (UCAR T cells). Results: Our data showed that co-targeting HER2, IL13Rα2, and EphA2 could overcome interpatient variability by a tendency to capture nearly 100% of tumor cells in most tumors tested in this cohort. UCAR T cells made from GBM patients  blood uniformly expressed all 3 CAR molecules with distinct antigen specificity.  UCAR T cells mediated robust immune synapses with tumor targets forming more polarized microtubule organizing centers and exhibited improved cytotoxicity and  cytokine release over best monospecific and bispecific CAR T cells per patient tumor profile. Lastly, low doses of UCAR T cells controlled established autologous GBM patient derived xenografts (PDXs) and improved survival of treated animals. Conclusion: UCAR T cells can overcome antigenic heterogeneity in GBM and lead to  improved treatment outcomes."

"456. Oncotarget. 2018 Mar 27;9(23):16557-16572. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24637. eCollection 2018 Mar 27.","Genetically enhanced T lymphocytes and the intensive care unit."," Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-T cells) and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) are important protocols in lymphocyte engineering. CAR-T cells have emerged as a new modality for cancer immunotherapy due to their potential efficacy against hematological malignancies. These genetically modified receptors contain an antigen-binding moiety, a hinge region, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular costimulatory domain resulting in lymphocyte T cell activation subsequent to antigen binding. In present-day medicine, four generations of CAR-T cells are described depending on the intracellular signaling domain number of T cell receptors. DLI represents a form of adoptive therapy used after hematopoietic stem cell transplant for its anti-tumor and anti-infectious properties. This article covers the current status of CAR-T cells and DLI research in the intensive care unit (ICU) patient, including the efficacy, toxicity, side effects and treatment."

"457. Science. 2018 Mar 23;359(6382):1361-1365. doi: 10.1126/science.aar6711.","CAR T cell immunotherapy for human cancer.","Adoptive T cell transfer (ACT) is a new area of transfusion medicine involving the infusion of lymphocytes to mediate antitumor, antiviral, or anti-inflammatory effects. The field has rapidly advanced from a promising form of immuno-oncology  in preclinical models to the recent commercial approvals of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to treat leukemia and lymphoma. This Review describes opportunities and challenges for entering mainstream oncology that presently face the CAR T field, with a focus on the challenges that have emerged over the past several years."

"458. Front Immunol. 2018 Mar 21;9:507. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00507. eCollection 2018.","Extracellular NGFR Spacers Allow Efficient Tracking and Enrichment of Fully Functional CAR-T Cells Co-Expressing a Suicide Gene.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell immunotherapy is at the forefront of innovative cancer therapeutics. However, lack of standardization of cellular products within the same clinical trial and lack of harmonization between different trials have hindered the clear identification of efficacy and safety determinants that should be unveiled in order to advance the field. With the aim  of facilitating the isolation and in vivo tracking of CAR-T cells, we here propose the inclusion within the CAR molecule of a novel extracellular spacer based on the low-affinity nerve-growth-factor receptor (NGFR). We screened four different spacer designs using as target antigen the CD44 isoform variant 6 (CD44v6). We successfully generated NGFR-spaced CD44v6 CAR-T cells that could be  efficiently enriched with clinical-grade immuno-magnetic beads without negative consequences on subsequent expansion, immuno-phenotype, in vitro antitumor reactivity, and conditional ablation when co-expressing a suicide gene. Most importantly, these cells could be tracked with anti-NGFR monoclonal antibodies in NSG mice, where they expanded, persisted, and exerted potent antitumor effects against both high leukemia and myeloma burdens. Similar results were obtained with NGFR-enriched CAR-T cells specific for CD19 or CEA, suggesting the universality of this strategy. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that the incorporation of the NGFR marker gene within the CAR sequence allows for a single molecule to simultaneously work as a therapeutic and selection/tracking gene. Looking ahead, NGFR spacer enrichment might allow good manufacturing procedures-manufacturing of standardized CAR-T cell products with high therapeutic potential, which could be harmonized in different clinical trials and used in combination with a suicide gene for future application in the allogeneic  setting."

"459. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Mar 20;11(1):44. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0591-7.","Accurate control of dual-receptor-engineered T cell activity through a bifunctional anti-angiogenic peptide.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) presented on T cell surfaces enable redirection of T cell specificity, which has enormous promise in antitumor therapy. However, excessive activity and poor control over such engineered T cells cause significant safety challenges, such as cytokine release syndrome and  organ toxicities. To enhance the specificity and controllable activity of CAR-T cells, we report a novel switchable dual-receptor CAR-engineered T (sdCAR-T) cell and a new switch molecule of FITC-HM-3 bifunctional molecule (FHBM) in this study. METHODS: We designed a fusion molecule comprising FITC and HM-3. HM-3, an antitumor peptide including an Arg-Gly-Asp sequence, can specifically target integrin αvβ3 that is presented on some tumor cells. Moreover, to improve the specificity of CAR-T cells, we also generated the sdCAR-T cell line against cognate tumor cells expressing human mesothelin (MSLN) and integrin αvβ3. Finally, the activity of sdCAR-T cell and FHBM is verified via in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: In the presence of FHBM, the designed sdCAR-T cells exerted high activity including activation and proliferation and had specific cytotoxicity in  a time- and dose-dependent manner in vitro. Furthermore, using a combination of FHBM in nude mice, sdCAR-T cells significantly inhibited the growth of MSLN+ K562 cells and released lower levels of the cytokines (e.g., interleukin-2, interferon γ, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor α) relative to conventional CAR-T cells, obtaining specific, controllable, and enhanced cytotoxicity. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that FHBM can accurately control timing and dose of injected CAR-T cells, and sdCAR-T cells exert significant antitumor activity while releasing lower levels of cytokines for the cognate tumor cells expressing  both MSLN and integrin αvβ3. Therefore, combination therapies using sdCAR-T cells and the switch molecule FHBM have significant potential to treat malignancies."

"460. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Mar 15;11(1):41. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0593-5.","CD19 CAR-T cell therapy for relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia: factors affecting toxicities and long-term efficacies.","The prognosis of adults with relapsed/refractory (R/R) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remains dismal even at this day and age. With salvage chemotherapy, only 29% (range 18 to 44%) of the patients with R/R ALL can be induced into complete remission (CR), with a median overall survival (OS) of 4 months (range 2-6 months). Blinatumomab and inotuzumab ozogamycin (IO) are immunotherapeutic agents that increased CR to 80% and extended survival to 7.7 months in this high-risk population of patients. In the last few years, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)--engineered T cells have led to major progress in cancer immunotherapy. CD-19 CAR-T cells have been recently approved for high-risk R/R ALL and lymphoma. The data from long-term follow-up of a single-center phase  I study of 19-28z CAR-T cell therapy for adult R/R ALL were just published. At the same time, a multicenter phase II study of 19-41BB CAR-T cell therapy for children and young adults with R/R B cell ALL was also published. The two studies provided fresh information with long-term follow-up. This research highlight analyzed the data and proposed future perspectives for further investigation in this rapidly evolving field."

"463. Nat Commun. 2018 Mar 14;9(1):1081. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-03524-1.","Clinically compliant spatial and temporal imaging of chimeric antigen receptor T-cells.","The unprecedented efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy of CD19+ B-cell malignancy has established a new therapeutic pillar of hematology-oncology. Nonetheless, formidable challenges remain for the attainment of comparable success in patients with solid tumors. To accelerate progress and rapidly characterize emerging toxicities, systems that permit the repeated and non-invasive assessment of CAR T-cell bio-distribution would be invaluable. An ideal solution would entail the use of a non-immunogenic reporter  that mediates specific uptake of an inexpensive, non-toxic and clinically established imaging tracer by CAR T cells. Here we show the utility of the human  sodium iodide symporter (hNIS) for the temporal and spatial monitoring of CAR T-cell behavior in a cancer-bearing host. This system provides a clinically compliant toolkit for high-resolution serial imaging of CAR T cells in vivo, addressing a fundamental unmet need for future clinical development in the field."

"464. Blood. 2018 Mar 8;131(10):1045-1052. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-08-752121. Epub 2018 Jan 22.","Posttransplant chimeric antigen receptor therapy.","Therapeutic T-cell engineering is emerging as a powerful approach to treat refractory hematological malignancies. Its most successful embodiment to date is  based on the use of second-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19, a cell surface molecule found in most B-cell leukemias and lymphomas. Remarkable complete remissions have been obtained with autologous T cells expressing CD19 CARs in patients with relapsed, chemo-refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Allogeneic CAR T cells may also be harnessed to treat relapse after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, the use of donor T cells poses  unique challenges owing to potential alloreactivity. We review different approaches to mitigate the risk of causing or aggravating graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), including CAR therapies based on donor leukocyte infusion, virus-specific T cells, T-cell receptor-deficient T cells, lymphoid progenitor cells, and regulatory T cells. Advances in CAR design, T-cell selection and gene  editing are poised to enable the safe use of allogeneic CAR T cells without incurring GVHD."

"465. J Exp Med. 2018 Mar 5;215(3):985-997. doi: 10.1084/jem.20171626. Epub 2018 Feb 7.","Optimized RNP transfection for highly efficient CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene knockout in primary T cells.","CRISPR (clustered, regularly interspaced, short palindromic repeats)/Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) has become the tool of choice for generating gene knockouts across a variety of species. The ability for efficient gene editing in  primary T cells not only represents a valuable research tool to study gene function but also holds great promise for T cell-based immunotherapies, such as next-generation chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. Previous attempts to apply CRIPSR/Cas9 for gene editing in primary T cells have resulted in highly variable knockout efficiency and required T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, thus largely precluding the study of genes involved in T cell activation or differentiation. Here, we describe an optimized approach for Cas9/RNP transfection of primary mouse and human T cells without TCR stimulation that results in near complete loss of target gene expression at the population level,  mitigating the need for selection. We believe that this method will greatly extend the feasibly of target gene discovery and validation in primary T cells and simplify the gene editing process for next-generation immunotherapies."

"466. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Mar 2;11(1):35. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0571-y.","Grading of cytokine release syndrome associated with the CAR T cell therapy tisagenlecleucel."," BACKGROUND: Anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy has demonstrated high response rates in  patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) B cell malignancies but is associated  with significant toxicity. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is the most significant complication associated with CAR T cell therapy, and it is critical to have a reproducible and easy method to grade CRS after CAR T cell infusions. DISCUSSION: The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events scale is inadequate for grading CRS associated with cellular therapy. Clinical experience  with the anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy tisagenlecleucel at the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) was used to develop the Penn grading scale for CRS. The Penn  grading scale depends on easily accessible clinical features; does not rely on location of care or quantitation of supportive care; assigns grades to guide CRS  management; distinguishes between mild, moderate, severe, and life-threatening CRS; and applies to both early-onset and delayed-onset CRS associated with T cell therapies. Clinical data from 55 pediatric patients with r/r B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and 42 patients with r/r chronic lymphocytic lymphoma treated with tisagenlecleucel were used to demonstrate the current application of the Penn grading scale. CONCLUSION: We show that the Penn grading scale provides reproducible CRS grading that can be useful to guide therapy and that can be applied across clinical trials and treatment platforms."

"467. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 2;13(3):e0193498. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193498. eCollection 2018.","In vitro immunotherapy potency assays using real-time cell analysis.","A growing understanding of the molecular interactions between immune effector cells and target tumor cells, coupled with refined gene therapy approaches, are giving rise to novel cancer immunotherapeutics with remarkable efficacy in the clinic against both solid and liquid tumors. While immunotherapy holds tremendous promise for treatment of certain cancers, significant challenges remain in the clinical translation to many other types of cancers and also in minimizing adverse effects. Therefore, there is an urgent need for functional potency assays, in vitro and in vivo, that could model the complex interaction of immune  cells with tumor cells and can be used to rapidly test the efficacy of different  immunotherapy approaches, whether it is small molecule, biologics, cell therapies or combinations thereof. Herein we report the development of an xCELLigence real-time cytolytic in vitro potency assay that uses cellular impedance to continuously monitor the viability of target tumor cells while they are being subjected to different types of treatments. Specialized microtiter plates containing integrated gold microelectrodes enable the number, size, and surface attachment strength of adherent target tumor cells to be selectively monitored within a heterogeneous mixture that includes effector cells, antibodies, small molecules, etc. Through surface-tethering approach, the killing of liquid cancers can also be monitored. Using NK92 effector cells as example, results from RTCA potency assay are very well correlated with end point data from image-based assays as well as flow cytometry. Several effector cells, i.e., PBMC, NK, CAR-T were tested and validated as well as biological molecules such as Bi-specific T cell Engagers (BiTEs) targeting the EpCAM protein expressed on tumor cells and blocking antibodies against the immune checkpoint inhibitor PD-1. Using the specifically designed xCELLigence immunotherapy software, quantitative parameters such as KT50 (the amount of time it takes to kill 50% of the target tumor cells)  and % cytolysis are calculated and used for comparing the relative efficacy of different reagents. In summary, our results demonstrate the xCELLigence platform  to be well suited for potency assays, providing quantitative assessment with high reproducibility and a greatly simplified work flow."

"468. Ann Pharmacother. 2018 Mar;52(3):268-276. doi: 10.1177/1060028017736539. Epub 2017 Oct 12.","The ABCs of Immunotherapy for Adult Patients With B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of Food and Drug Administration approved and promising immunotherapy agents used in the treatment  of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). DATA SOURCES: A literature search was performed of PubMed and MEDLINE databases (1950 to July 2017) and of abstracts from the American Society of Hematology and  the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Searches were performed utilizing the  following key terms: rituximab, blinatumomab, inotuzumab, ofatumumab, obinutuzumab, Blincyto, Rituxan, Gazyva, Arzerra, CAR T-cell, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). STUDY SELECTION/DATA EXTRACTION: Studies of pharmacology, clinical efficacy, and  safety of rituximab, ofatumumab, obinutuzumab, inotuzumab, blinatumomab, and CAR  T-cells in the treatment of adult patients with ALL were identified. DATA SYNTHESIS: Conventional chemotherapy has been the mainstay in the treatment  of ALL, producing cure rates of approximately 90% in pediatrics, but it remains suboptimal in adult patients. As such, more effective consolidative modalities and novel therapies for relapsed/refractory disease are needed for adult patients with ALL. In recent years, anti-CD20 antibodies, blinatumomab, inotuzumab, and CD19-targeted CAR T-cells have drastically changed the treatment landscape of B-cell ALL. CONCLUSION: Outcomes of patients with relapsed disease are improving thanks to new therapies such as blinatumomab, inotuzumab, and CAR T-cells. Although the efficacy of these therapies is impressive, they are not without toxicity, both physical and financial. The optimal sequencing of these therapies still remains a question."

"469. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2018 Mar;24(3S):S15-S19. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2017.12.789.","Reprint of: Building a Safer and Faster CAR: Seatbelts, Airbags, and CRISPR.","Therapeutic T cell engineering has recently garnered widespread interest because  of the success of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy. CARs are synthetic receptors for antigen that redirect the specificity and reprogram the function of the T cells in which they are genetically introduced. CARs targeting  CD19, a cell surface molecule found in most leukemias and lymphomas, have yielded high remission rates in patients with chemorefractory, relapsed disease, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The toxicities of this treatment include B cell aplasia, cytokine release syndrome (CRS), and neurotoxicity. Although reversible in most instances, these toxicities may require specific medical interventions, including transfer to intensive care to treat severe CRS. Guidelines for managing these toxicities are emerging. The recent report of a nonhuman primate model for CRS is poised to help advance the management of this syndrome. Finally, new engineering  modalities, based on the use of targeted nucleases like CRISPR, may further enhance the efficacy and safety of CAR T cells."

"470. Blood Rev. 2018 Mar;32(2):106-115. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2017.09.003. Epub 2017 Sep 19.","Immunoglobulin therapy in hematologic neoplasms and after hematopoietic cell transplantation.","Immunoglobulins are used to prevent or reduce infection risk in primary immune deficiencies and in settings which exploit its anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory effects. Rigorous proof of immunoglobulin efficacy in persons with lympho-proliferative neoplasms, plasma cell myeloma, and persons receiving hematopoietic cell transplants is lacking despite many clinical trials. Further,  there are few consensus guidelines or algorithms for use in these conditions. Rapid development of new therapies targeting B-cell signaling and survival pathways and increased use of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy will likely result in more acquired deficiencies of humoral immunity and infections in persons with cancer. We review immunoglobulin formulations and discuss efficacy and potential adverse effects in the context of preventing infections and in graft-versus-host disease. We suggest an algorithm for evaluating acquired deficiencies of humoral immunity in persons with hematologic  neoplasms and recommend appropriate use of immunoglobulin therapy."

"471. Breast Care (Basel). 2018 Mar;13(1):22-26. doi: 10.1159/000486330. Epub 2018 Jan  31.","Immunooncology in Breast Cancer: Active and Passive Vaccination Strategies.","Immunotherapies are set to become part of the therapeutic repertoire for breast cancer in the near future. Active vaccination is a promising strategy, especially in tumors that have a specific tumor-associated antigen. Although cellular immunotherapies have not yet shown efficacy, new technologies are on the way to improve this approach. Given the recent Food and Drug Administration approval of  chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells for leukemia, it is only a question of time before solid tumors will follow. However, not all breast cancer patients will respond to cellular or other immunotherapy. Hence, we must define subpopulations of breast cancer patients who benefit from this new approach."

"472. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Mar;67(3):393-401. doi: 10.1007/s00262-017-2089-5. Epub 2017 Nov 10.","Targeting and suppression of HER3-positive breast cancer by T lymphocytes expressing a heregulin chimeric antigen receptor.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modulated T lymphocytes (CAR-T) have emerged as a powerful tool for arousing anticancer immunity. Endogenous ligands for tumor antigen may outperform single-chain variable fragments to serve as a component of CARs with high cancer recognition efficacy and minimized immunogenicity. As heterodimerization and signaling partners for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), HER3/HER4 has been implicated in tumorigenic signaling and therapeutic resistance of breast cancer. In this study, we engineered T cells with a CAR consisting of the extracellular domain of heregulin-1β (HRG1β) that is a natural ligand for HER3/HER4, and evaluated the specific cytotoxicity of these  CAR-T cells in cultured HER3 positive breast cancer cells and xenograft tumors. Our results showed that HRG1β-CAR was successfully constructed, and T cells were  transduced at a rate of 50%. The CAR-T cells specifically recognized and killed HER3-overexpressing breast cancer cells SK-BR-3 and BT-474 in vitro, and displayed potent tumoricidal effect on SK-BR-3 xenograft tumor models. Our results suggest that HRG1β-based CAR-T cells effectively suppress breast cancer driven by HER family receptors, and may provide a novel strategy to overcome cancer resistance to HER2-targeted therapy."

"473. Cancer Lett. 2018 Mar 1;416:42-56. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.12.017. Epub 2017 Dec 13.","High-throughput sequencing of the immune repertoire in oncology: Applications for clinical diagnosis, monitoring, and immunotherapies.","The diagnostic, monitoring and therapeutic options for cancers currently remain limited. These limitations represent a large threat to human health. Adaptive immunity, which is dependent on diverse repertoires of B cell receptors (BCRs) and T cell receptors (TCRs), plays a critical role in the anti-tumor immune response. Modulation and surveillance of adaptive immunity has become a powerful  weapon to combat cancers. Recently, the high-throughput sequencing of immune repertoire (HTS-IR) technology, which provides a robust tool for deep sequencing  repertoires of BCRs or TCRs, has been applied in the development of tumor biomarkers and immunotherapeutics for cancers. This review will first provide an  overview of the advancement of HTS-IR technology at the population-cell and single-cell levels. It will then provide a current summary of the applications of HTS-IR technology in the diagnosis and monitoring of minimal residual disease (MRD), focusing on immune reconstitution after the treatment of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in B/T-cell malignancies, and the precise detection of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in non-B/T-cell malignancies. Finally, current advances of HTS-IR technology in cancer immunotherapeutic applications, such as therapeutic antibodies, CAR-T cell based-adoptive immunotherapies, and neoantigen-specific TCR-T cell-based adoptive immunotherapies, will be introduced."

"474. Contemp Oncol (Pozn). 2018 Mar;22(1A):73-80. doi: 10.5114/wo.2018.73892. Epub 2018 Mar 5.","Versatile CAR T-cells for cancer immunotherapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has been clinically proven to efficiently combat haematological malignancies. However, continuous efforts are required to increase the specificity of CAR T-cells against tumour versus normal  tissues, and are essential to improve their antitumour activity in solid tumours. This review summarises the structure of major CAR designs, and strategies to overcome immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment, and reduce toxicities. Along  with reviewing currently available techniques that allow the elimination of CAR T-cells after they fulfil their desired functions, using suicide genes, drug elimination strategies are also introduced. A better understanding of the strengths and pitfalls of CAR T-cell therapy will provide fundamental knowledge for the improvement of engineered T-cell therapy in the near future."

"475. Drugs Today (Barc). 2018 Mar;54(3):187-198. doi: 10.1358/dot.2018.54.3.2776625.","Axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of relapsed/refractory B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphomas.","B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphomas are the most common hematological malignancies, which despite improvements in chemo-immunotherapy, carry a uniformly poor prognosis in the relapsed/refractory setting. CD19 is an antigen expressed on the surface of most malignancies arising from the B cells, and adoptive transfer of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells has been shown to be effective in treating these B-cell malignancies. Axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel, KTE-C19) is an autologous anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy which has shown  high overall response rates and a manageable safety profile in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies who lack effective and curative treatment options. Axi-cel is currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma,  and is also being evaluated in other B-cell malignancies in ongoing clinical trials. In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action of axi-cel, clinical trials leading to its FDA approval, ongoing clinical trials and its potential adverse effects, and will speculate on the future directions of axi-cel and CAR T-cell therapy in general."

"476. Expert Rev Neurother. 2018 Mar;18(3):251-259. doi: 10.1080/14737175.2018.1425617. Epub 2018 Jan 11.","Immunotherapy for brain tumors: understanding early successes and limitations.","INTRODUCTION: Adverse effects and toxicities related to standard treatments for brain tumors significantly reduce patients quality of life. Although most immunotherapy approaches for solid tumors have not been successful, several early-phase clinical trials are beginning to reveal a potential role for immunotherapy in the treatment of brain tumors. In particular, methods that activate the innate immune system and induce a polyclonal anti-cancer response have demonstrated that brain tumors are susceptible to immune-mediated tumor destruction. Compared with conventional therapies, modulation of the immune system may improve both survivorship and quality of life during and following treatment. Areas covered: An overview of mechanisms of immunotherapy in the context of current treatments for adult and pediatric brain tumors is provided. Results from recent clinical trials will be discussed, focusing on the favorable  safety and efficacy profiles of immunotherapeutics. Expert commentary: Although it is too early to judge the long-term safety of immunotherapy for the treatment  of patients with brain tumors, early results suggest that these drugs are well-tolerated and may improve survival and quality of life. Importantly, approaches that activate an anti-tumor immune response lay the framework for iterative development of immunotherapies that can reliably treat patients with brain tumors."

"477. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2018 Mar 1;6:19. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2018.00019. eCollection  2018.","Overcoming Barriers of Age to Enhance Efficacy of Cancer Immunotherapy: The Clout of the Extracellular Matrix.","There is a growing list of cancer immunotherapeutics approved for use in a population with an increasing number of aged individuals. Cancer immunotherapy (CIT) mediates tumor destruction by activating anti-tumor immune responses that have been silenced through the oncogenic process. However, in an aging individual, immune deregulation is positively correlated with age. In this context, it is vital to examine the age-related changes in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and specifically, those directly affecting critical players to ensure CIT efficacy. Effector T cells, regulatory T cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, tumor-associated macrophages, and tumor-associated neutrophils play important roles in promoting or inhibiting the  inflammatory response, while cancer-associated fibroblasts are key mediators of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Immune checkpoint inhibitors function optimally in inflamed tumors heavily invaded by CD4 and CD8 T cells. However, immunosenescence curtails the effector T cell response within the TME and causes  ECM deregulation, creating a biophysical barrier impeding both effective drug delivery and pro-inflammatory responses. The ability of the chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell to artificially induce an adaptive immune response can be modified to degrade essential components of the ECM and alleviate the age-related changes to the TME. This review will focus on the age-related alterations in ECM  and immune-stroma interactions within the TME. We will discuss strategies to overcome the barriers of immunosenescence and matrix deregulation to ameliorate the efficacy of CIT in aged subjects."

"478. Immunotherapy. 2018 Mar;10(3):221-234. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0133.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for cancer: a basic research-oriented perspective.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have outstanding therapeutic potential for treating blood cancers. The prospects for this technology have accelerated basic research, clinical translation and Big Pharmas investment in the field of  T-cell therapeutics. This interest has led to the discovery of key factors that affect CAR T-cell efficacy and play pivotal roles in T-cell immunology. Herein, we introduce advances in adoptive immunotherapy and the birth of CAR T cells, and review CAR T-cell studies that focus on three important features: CAR constructs, target antigens and T-cell phenotypes. At last, we highlight novel strategies that overcome the tumor microenvironment and circumvent CAR T-cell side effects,  and consider the future direction of CAR T-cell development."

"483. Leukemia. 2018 Mar;32(3):801-808. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.249. Epub 2017 Aug 3.","Toll-like receptor 2 costimulation potentiates the antitumor efficacy of CAR T Cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapies have shown unprecedented success in treating leukemia but limited clinical efficacy in solid tumors. Here, we generated 1928zT2 and m28zT2, targeting CD19 and mesothelin, respectively, by  introducing the Toll/interleukin-1 receptor domain of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) to 1928z and m28z. T cells expressing 1928zT2 or m28zT2 showed improved expansion, persistency and effector function against CD19+ leukemia or mesothelin+ solid tumors respectively in vitro and in vivo. In a patient with relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a single dose of 5 × 104/kg 1928zT2 T cells resulted in robust expansion and leukemia eradication and led to complete remission. Hence, our results demonstrate that TLR2 signaling can contribute to the efficacy of CAR T cells. Further clinical trials are warranted to establish the safety and efficacy of this approach."

"484. Nat Chem Biol. 2018 Mar;14(3):317-324. doi: 10.1038/nchembio.2565. Epub 2018 Jan  29.","Rewiring T-cell responses to soluble factors with chimeric antigen receptors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells targeting surface-bound tumor  antigens have yielded promising clinical outcomes, with two CD19 CAR-T cell therapies recently receiving FDA approval for the treatment of B-cell malignancies. The adoption of CARs for the recognition of soluble ligands, a distinct class of biomarkers in physiology and disease, could considerably broaden the utility of CARs in disease treatment. In this study, we demonstrate that CAR-T cells can be engineered to respond robustly to diverse soluble ligands, including the CD19 ectodomain, GFP variants, and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β). We additionally show that CAR signaling in response to soluble ligands relies on ligand-mediated CAR dimerization and that CAR responsiveness to soluble ligands can be fine-tuned by adjusting the mechanical coupling between the CARs ligand-binding and signaling domains. Our results support a role for mechanotransduction in CAR signaling and demonstrate an approach for systematically engineering immune-cell responses to soluble, extracellular ligands."

"488. Pharmacol Res. 2018 Mar;129:194-203. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2017.11.035. Epub 2017 Dec 1.","CAR-T cells and combination therapies: Whats next in the immunotherapy revolution?","Cancer immunotherapies are dramatically reshaping the clinical management of oncologic patients. For many of these therapies, the guidelines for administration, monitoring, and management of associated toxicities are still being established. This is especially relevant for adoptively transferred, genetically-modified T cells, which have unique pharmacokinetic properties, due to their ability to replicate and persist long-term, following a single administration. Furthermore, in the case of CAR-T cells, the use of synthetic immune receptors may impact signaling pathways involved in T cell function and survival in unexpected ways. We, herein, comment on the most salient aspects of CAR-T cell design and clinical experience in the treatment of solid tumors. In addition, we discuss different possible scenarios for combinations of CAR-T cells and other treatment modalities, with a special emphasis on kinase inhibitors, elaborating on the strategies to maximize synergism. Finally, we discuss some of  the technologies that are available to explore the molecular events governing the success of these therapies. The young fields of synthetic and systems biology are likely to be major players in the advancement of CAR-T cell therapies, providing  the tools and the knowledge to engineer patients T lymphocytes into intelligent  cancer-fighting micromachines."

"489. Sci Rep. 2018 Mar 1;8(1):3846. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-22252-6.","Engineering Axl specific CAR and SynNotch receptor for cancer therapy.","Axl is a tyrosine kinase receptor that is commonly overexpressed in many cancers. As such, Axl represents an attractive therapeutic target. The transfer of engineered T cell expressing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is an exciting cancer therapeutic approach that shows high efficacy against cancers in clinical  trials, especially for B cell malignancies. Furthermore, recently developed synthetic Notch (synNotch) receptor has demonstrated potential in enhancing the specificity of CAR T cell therapy and delivering therapeutic payloads to tumors in an antigen-dependent manner. Therefore, a CAR or synNotch against Axl could be a valuable therapeutic reagent against many cancers. Here, we develop a single-chain variable fragment from a humanized monoclonal antibody against Axl.  The scFv is attached to CD3ζ, CD28, and 4-1BB signaling domains to generate an anti-Axl CAR. When introduced into human primary T cells, the anti-Axl CAR can lead to cytokine production and cell killing in response to tumor cells expressing Axl. Moreover, an anti-Axl synNotch generated using the same scFv can  be activated with Axl expressing tumor cells. Given the fact that Axl is an important cancer therapeutic target, these receptors could be valuable reagents for developing anti-Axl therapies."

"492. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Feb 27;115(9):E2068-E2076. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1716266115. Epub 2018 Feb 12.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells form nonclassical and potent immune synapses driving rapid cytotoxicity."," Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells are effective serial killers with a faster off-rate from dying tumor cells than CAR-T cells binding target cells through their T cell receptor (TCR). Here we explored the functional consequences of CAR-mediated signaling using a dual-specific CAR-T cell, where the same cell was triggered via TCR (tcrCTL) or CAR (carCTL). The carCTL immune synapse lacked  distinct LFA-1 adhesion rings and was less reliant on LFA to form stable conjugates with target cells. carCTL receptors associated with the synapse were found to be disrupted and formed a convoluted multifocal pattern of Lck microclusters. Both proximal and distal receptor signaling pathways were induced  more rapidly and subsequently decreased more rapidly in carCTL than in tcrCTL. The functional consequence of this rapid signaling in carCTL cells included faster lytic granule recruitment to the immune synapse, correlating with faster detachment of the CTL from the target cell. This study provides a mechanism for how CAR-T cells can debulk large tumor burden quickly and may contribute to further refinement of CAR design for enhancing the quality of signaling and programming of the T cell."

"493. Biomed Res Int. 2018 Feb 25;2018:1812535. doi: 10.1155/2018/1812535. eCollection  2018.","Immune Escape Mechanisms and Future Prospects for Immunotherapy in Neuroblastoma.","Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common extracranial solid tumor in childhood with  5-year survival rate of 40% in high-risk patients despite intensive therapies. Recently, adoptive cell therapy, particularly chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, represents a revolutionary treatment for hematological malignancies. However, there are challenges for this therapeutic strategy with solid tumors, as a result of the immunosuppressive nature of the tumor microenvironment (TME). Cancer cells have evolved multiple mechanisms to escape immune recognition or to modulate immune cell function. Several subtypes of immune cells that infiltrate tumors can foster tumor development, harbor immunosuppressive activity, and decrease an efficacy of adoptive cell therapies.  Therefore, an understanding of the dual role of the immune system under the influences of the TME has been crucial for the development of effective therapeutic strategies against solid cancers. This review aims to depict key immune players and cellular pathways involved in the dynamic interplay between the TME and the immune system and also to address challenges and prospective development of adoptive T cell transfer for neuroblastoma."

"494. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Feb 20;11(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s13045-018-0572-x.","A novel generation 1928zT2 CAR T cells induce remission in extramedullary relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown promise  in the treatment of B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL). However, its efficacy in B-ALL patients with extramedullary involvement is limited due to poor responses and neurotoxicity. Here, we utilized a third generation of CAR T cell vector, which contains the Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (ITR) domain of Toll-like  receptor 2 (TLR2), to generate 1928zT2 T cells targeting CD19, and evaluated the  efficacy of 1928zT2 T cells in relapse or refractory B-ALL patients with extramedullary involvement. METHODS: 1928zT2 T cells were generated by 19-28z-TLR2 lentiviral vector transfection into primary human T lymphocytes. The anti-leukemia effect of 1928zT2 T cells were determined by killing assays and in xenografts. Three patients diagnosed as relapse or refractory ALL with extramedullary involvement were infused with 1928zT2 T cells, and the clinical responses were evaluated by BM smear, B-ultrasonography, PET/CT, histology, flow cytometry, qPCR, ELISA, and  luminex assay. RESULTS: 1928zT2 T cells exhibited enhanced effector function against CD19+ leukemic cells in vitro and in a xenograft model of human extramedullary leukemia. Notably, the 1928zT2 T cells eradicated extramedullary leukemia and induced complete remission in the three relapse and refractory ALL patients without serious adverse effects. 1928zT2 T cells expanded robustly in the circulation of these three patients and were detected in the cerebrospinal fluid  of patient 3. These three patients experienced cytokine release syndrome (CRS) with grade 2 or 3, which remitted spontaneously or after tocilizumab treatment. None of the three patients suffered neurotoxicity or needed further intensive care. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that 1928zT2 T cells with TLR2 incorporation augment anti-leukemic effects, particularly for eradicating extramedullary leukemia cells, and suggest that the infusion of 1928zT2 T cells is an encouraging treatment for relapsed/refractory ALL patients with extramedullary involvement. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT02822326 . Date of registration: July 4, 2016."

"495. Front Immunol. 2018 Feb 19;9:239. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00239. eCollection 2018.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cells for the Treatment of B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell technology has seen a rapid development over the last decade mostly due to the potential that these cells may have in treating malignant diseases. It is a generally accepted principle that very few therapeutic compounds deliver a clinical response without treatment-related toxicity, and studies have shown that CAR T-cells are not an exception to this rule. While large multinational drug companies are currently investigating the potential role of CAR T-cells in hematological oncology, the potential of such cellular therapies are being recognized worldwide as they are expected to expand  in the patient to support the establishment of the immune memory, provide a continuous surveillance to prevent and/or treat a relapse, and keep the targeted  malignant cell subpopulation in check. In this article, we present the possible advantages of using CAR T-cells in treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia, presenting the technology and the current knowledge in their preclinical and early clinical trial use. Thus, this article first presents the main present-day  knowledge on the standard of care for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Afterward, current knowledge is presented about the use of CAR T-cells in cancer immunotherapy, describing their design, the molecular constructs, and the preclinical data on murine models to properly explain the background for their clinical use. Last, but certainly not least, this article presents the use of CAR T-cells for the immunotherapy of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, describing  both their potential clinical advantages and the possible side effects."

"498. Cell Death Dis. 2018 Feb 15;9(3):282. doi: 10.1038/s41419-018-0278-6.","CAR-T cells: the long and winding road to solid tumors.","Adoptive cell therapy of solid tumors with reprogrammed T cells can be considered the next generation of cancer hallmarks. CAR-T cells fail to be as effective as in liquid tumors for the inability to reach and survive in the microenvironment surrounding the neoplastic foci. The intricate net of cross-interactions occurring between tumor components, stromal and immune cells leads to an ineffective anergic status favoring the evasion from the hosts defenses. Our goal is hereby to trace the road imposed by solid tumors to CAR-T cells, highlighting pitfalls and strategies to be developed and refined to possibly overcome these hurdles."

"499. Front Immunol. 2018 Feb 15;9:283. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00283. eCollection 2018.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor Expressing Natural Killer Cells for the Immunotherapy of Cancer.","Adoptive cell therapy has emerged as a powerful treatment for advanced cancers resistant to conventional agents. Most notable are the remarkable responses seen  in patients receiving autologous CD19-redirected chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)  T cells for the treatment of B lymphoid malignancies; however, the generation of  autologous products for each patient is logistically cumbersome and has restricted widespread clinical use. A banked allogeneic product has the potential to overcome these limitations, yet allogeneic T-cells (even if human leukocyte antigen-matched) carry a major risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Natural  killer (NK) cells are bone marrow-derived innate lymphocytes that can eliminate tumors directly, with their activity governed by the integration of signals from  activating and inhibitory receptors and from cytokines including IL-15, IL-12, and IL-18. NK cells do not cause GVHD or other alloimmune or autoimmune toxicities and thus, can provide a potential source of allogeneic off-the-shelf cellular therapy, mediating major anti-tumor effects without inducing potentially lethal alloreactivity such as GVHD. Given the multiple unique advantages of NK cells, researchers are now exploring the use of CAR-engineered NK cells for the treatment of various hematological and non-hematological malignancies. Herein, we review preclinical data on the development of CAR-NK cells, advantages, disadvantages, and current obstacles to their clinical use."

"500. Mol Cancer. 2018 Feb 15;17(1):32. doi: 10.1186/s12943-018-0814-0.","Engineering chimeric antigen receptor-T cells for cancer treatment.","Intratumor heterogeneity of tumor clones and an immunosuppressive microenvironment in cancer ecosystems contribute to inherent difficulties for tumor treatment. Recently, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has been successfully applied in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, underscoring its great potential in antitumor therapy. However, functional challenges of CAR-T cell therapy, especially in solid tumors, remain. Here, we describe cancer-immunity phenotypes from a clonal-stromal-immune perspective and elucidate mechanisms of T-cell exhaustion that contribute to tumor immune evasion. Then we  assess the functional challenges of CAR-T cell therapy, including cell trafficking and infiltration, targeted-recognition and killing of tumor cells, T-cell proliferation and persistence, immunosuppressive microenvironment and self-control regulation. Finally, we delineate tumor precision informatics and advancements in engineered CAR-T cells to counteract inherent challenges of the CAR-T cell therapy, either alone or in combination with traditional therapeutics, and highlight the therapeutic potential of this approach in future tumor precision treatment."

"501. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Feb 15;7(6):e1433982. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1433982. eCollection 2018.","Trial Watch: Immunostimulation with recombinant cytokines for cancer therapy.","Cytokines regulate virtually aspects of innate and adaptive immunity, including the initiation, execution and extinction of tumor-targeting immune responses. Over the past three decades, the possibility of using recombinant cytokines as a  means to elicit or boost clinically relevant anticancer immune responses has attracted considerable attention. However, only three cytokines have been approved so far by the US Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency for use in cancer patients, namely, recombinant interleukin (IL)-2 and two variants of recombinant interferon alpha 2 (IFN-α2a and IFN-α2b). Moreover, the use of these cytokines in the clinics is steadily decreasing, mostly as a consequence of: (1) the elevated pleiotropism of IL-2, IFN-α2a and IFN-α2b, resulting in multiple unwarranted effects; and (2) the development of highly effective immunostimulatory therapeutics, such as immune checkpoint blockers. Despite this and other obstacles, research in the field continues as alternative  cytokines with restricted effects on specific cell populations are being evaluated. Here, we summarize research preclinical and clinical developments on the use of recombinant cytokines for immunostimulation in cancer patients."

"502. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Feb 14;39(2):148-152. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2018.02.014.","[An experimental study of CD4 targeted chimeric antigen receptor modified T cell  with anti-lymphoma activity].","Objective: To study the specific killing effect of CD4 membrane protein targeted  chimeric antigen receptor modified T (CAR-T) cell. Methods: The second generation CD4 targeted chimeric antigen receptor containing 4-1BB costimulation domain was  insert into lentiviral vector through recombinant DNA technology. Lentivirus was  prepared and packaged by 293T cells with four plasmids. Beads activated T cells were transduced with lentivirus and the transduction efficiency was checked with  Protein L and flow cytometry. T cell subsets and IFN-γ concentrations were detected with probe-tagged antibody and cytometric bead assay. Results: ①The transduction efficiency of activated T cells with prepared lentivirus were 50.0%-70.0%. A subset of CD8+ T cell acquired dim expression of CD4 membrane protein after activation. CD4+T cell and CD8+CD4dim T cell were gradually killed  by CD4 targeted CAR-T post lentivirus transduction. ②The kill efficacy of CD4 targeted CAR-T cell and control T cell toward KARPAS 299 T cell at an E∶T ratio of 8∶1 for 24 h was (96.9±2.1)% and (11.2±3.1)%, CAR-T cell has a higher killing  efficacy than control T cell (t=7.137, P=0.028). The IFN-γ concentrations in culture supernatant of CAR-T cell with K562-CD4 cell, CAR-T cell with K562 cell and CAR-T cell alone were (15 648±2 168), (1 978±354) and (1 785±268) pg/ml, CAR-T cell cocultured with K562-CD4 cell produced more IFN-γ than the other two controls (P<0.01). Conclusions: CD4 targeted CAR-T has an immunophenotype of CD8+CD4-T cell. CD4 targeted CAR-T cell has killing efficacy toward normal CD4+T  cell and CD4+T lymphoma cell. CD4 targeted CAR-T cell also has a killing efficacy toward CD4dim target cell."

"503. Blood Adv. 2018 Feb 13;2(3):210-223. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2017011254.","Improving T-cell expansion and function for adoptive T-cell therapy using ex vivo treatment with PI3Kδ inhibitors and VIP antagonists.","Adoptive therapy with ex vivo-expanded genetically modified antigen-specific T cells can induce remissions in patients with relapsed/refractory cancer. The clinical success of this therapy depends upon efficient transduction and expansion of T cells ex vivo and their homing, persistence and cytotoxicity following reinfusion. Lower rates of ex vivo expansion and clinical response using anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have been seen in heavily pretreated lymphoma patients compared with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients and motivate the development of novel strategies to enhance ex vivo T cell expansion and their persistence in vivo. We demonstrate that inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase δ (PI3Kδ) and antagonism of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) signaling partially inhibits the terminal differentiation of T cells during anti-CD3/CD28 bead-mediated expansion (mean, 54.4% CD27+CD28+ T cells vs 27.4% in control cultures; P < .05). This strategy results in a mean of  83.7% more T cells cultured from lymphoma patients in the presence of PI3Kδ and VIP antagonists, increased survival of human T cells from a lymphoma patient in a murine xenograft model, enhanced cytotoxic activity of antigen-specific human CAR T cells and murine T cells against lymphoma, and increased transduction and expansion of anti-CD5 human CAR T cells. PI3Kδ and VIP antagonist-expanded T cells from lymphoma patients show reduced terminal differentiation, enhanced polyfunctional cytokine expression, and preservation of costimulatory molecule expression. Taken together, synergistic blockade of these pathways is an attractive strategy to enhance the expansion and functional capacity of ex vivo-expanded cancer-specific T cells."

"504. J Transl Med. 2018 Feb 8;16(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s12967-018-1394-x.","Turning the tables on cytomegalovirus: targeting viral Fc receptors by CARs containing mutated CH2-CH3 IgG spacer domains.","BACKGROUND: During infection with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) several viral proteins occur on cell surfaces in high quantity. We thus pursue an HLA-independent approach for immunotherapy of HCMV using chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) and bispecific BiTE® antibody constructs. In this context, HCMV-encoded proteins that mediate viral immune evasion and bind human IgG might  represent particularly attractive target antigens. Unlike in observations of similar approaches for HIV and hepatitis B and C viruses, however, HCMV-infected  cells develop a striking resistance to cytotoxic effector functions at later stages of the replication cycle. In our study we therefore wanted to test two hypotheses: (1) CAR T cells can efficiently inhibit HCMV replication independently from cytotoxic effector functions, and (2) HCMV can be targeted by  CH2-CH3 IgG spacer domains that contain mutations previously reported to prevent  exhaustion and to rescue CAR T cell function in vivo. METHODS: Replication of GFP-encoding recombinant HCMV in fibroblasts in the presence and absence of supernatants from T cell co-cultures plus/minus cytokine  neutralizing antibodies was analyzed by flow cytometry. CARs with wild type and mutated CH2-CH3 domains were expressed in human T cells by mRNA electroporation,  and the function of the CARs was assessed by quantifying T cell cytokine secretion. RESULTS: We confirm and extend previous evidence of antiviral cytokine effects and demonstrate that CAR T cells strongly block HCMV replication in fibroblasts mainly by combined secretion of IFN-γ and TNF. Furthermore, we show that fibroblasts infected with HCMV strains AD169 and Towne starting from day 3 have a high capacity for binding of human IgG1 and also strongly activate T cells expressing a CAR with CH2-CH3 domain. Importantly, we further show that mutations in the CH2-CH3 domain of IgG1 and IgG4, which were previously reported to rescue  CAR T cell function by abrogating interaction with endogenous Fc receptors (FcRs), still enable recognition of FcRs encoded by HCMV. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify HCMV-encoded FcRs as an attractive additional  target for HCMV immunotherapy by CARs and possibly bispecific antibodies. The use of specifically mutated IgG domains that bind to HCMV-FcRs without recognizing endogenous FcRs may supersede screening for novel binders directed against individual HCMV-FcRs."

"505. Cell Death Dis. 2018 Feb 7;9(2):177. doi: 10.1038/s41419-017-0238-6.","Antitumor activity of EGFR-specific CAR T cells against non-small-cell lung cancer cells in vitro and in mice.","Effective control of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains clinically challenging, especially during advanced stages of the disease. This study developed an adoptive T-cell treatment through expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to target human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in NSCLC.  We optimized the non-viral piggyBac transposon system to engineer human T cells for the expression of EGFR-CAR, consisting of EGFR scFv, transmembrane domain, and intracellular 4-1BB-CD3ζ signaling domains. The modified CAR T cells exhibited expansion capability and anticancer efficacy in a time- and antigen-dependent manner in vitro as well as regression of EGFR-positive human lung cancer xenografts in vivo. EGFR-CAR T therapy is a promising strategy to improve the efficacy and potency of the adoptive immunotherapy in NSCLC. Moreover, EGFR-CAR T therapy could become a clinical application for NSCLC patients in the future."

"506. Curr Oncol Rep. 2018 Feb 7;20(1):8. doi: 10.1007/s11912-018-0662-5.","From a Patient Advocates Perspective: Does Cancer Immunotherapy Represent a Paradigm Shift?","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In 2016, the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) announced immunotherapy as the years top cancer advance in its Clinical Cancer  Advances 2016: ASCOs Annual Report on Progress Against Cancer. Further, ASCO again named Immunotherapy 2.0 as the 2017 advance of the year, emphasizing the  recent, rapid pace of research into new agents that harness and enhance the innate abilities of the immune system to recognize and fight cancers-and stressing that such agents have extended the lives of many patients with late-stage cancers for which there have been few treatment options. This article  discusses the history of cancer immunotherapy and the recent promising advances,  yet also presents a note of caution on limitations of immunotherapies, their potential harms, and the critical need for oncologists to appropriately engage with and educate patients to effectively manage their expectations. RECENT FINDINGS: Learning how to effectively harness the immune system to treat cancer represents an investigative journey of more than 100 years. However, after many failures and disappointments, this decade has seen several important successes. In 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first immunotherapy agent known as a checkpoint inhibitor. Beginning in 2014, several additional checkpoint blockage drugs have been FDA-approved, and new indications  and drug combinations have emerged. Further, on August 30, 2017, the FDA announced its first approval of a new form of immunotherapy known as CAR T cell therapy. Since the 2011 approval of the first checkpoint inhibitor, cancer immunotherapy research among the pharmaceutical industry and research institutions has exploded, with thousands of clinical trials currently taking place. The current cancer immunotherapy revolution is in the headlines daily and is also the primary topic of conversation among major cancer research conferences and symposia attendees. However, a once quiet voice has begun to emerge, where an increasing number of scientists, clinicians, and patient advocates are stressing the need for caution concerning the limitations and potential harms associated with cancer immunotherapy. Many oncologists, scientists, medical professional associations, and advocates agree that no recent cancer advance has been as successful, transformative, and potentially paradigm-shifting as immunotherapy. With this decade, we have seen the approval of several immunotherapy agents that have successfully treated a percentage of patients with notoriously resistant cancers, an increasing number of combination  immunotherapy treatments, and new indications for approved agents. However, patients need to be aware that much of the popular media has breathlessly inflated positive outcomes of cancer immunotherapies, while neglecting to stress  that just a small percentage of patients actually benefit from such treatments. Further, they often completely overlook the unique, potentially life-threatening  harms that may be associated with these agents and fail to cover negative findings where immunotherapies have appeared to paradoxically accelerate cancer growth. Fortunately, the majority of journal articles presenting trial results and comprehensive review articles appropriately discuss the important limitations associated with immunotherapies, the unique spectrum of adverse effects, and the  need for further research to improve our ability to identify those patients who are most likely to benefit from specific agents, sparing other patients from exposure to agents that will not be effective, yet may carry potentially life-threatening toxicities."

"507. Mol Ther. 2018 Feb 7;26(2):354-365. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.12.001. Epub 2017 Dec 8.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered Human Gamma Delta T Cells: Enhanced Cytotoxicity with Retention of Cross Presentation.","Gamma delta T (γδT) lymphocytes are primed for rapid function, including cytotoxicity toward cancer cells, and are a component of the immediate stress response. Following activation, they can function as professional antigen-presenting cells. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) work by focusing T cell function on defined cell surface tumor antigens and provide essential costimulation for robust activation. Given the natural tropism of γδT cells for the tumor microenvironment, we hypothesized that their transduction with CARs might enhance cytotoxicity while retaining their ability to migrate to tumor and  act as antigen-presenting cells to prolong the intratumoral immune response. Using a GD2-targeting CAR as a model system, we showed that γδT cells of both Vδ1 and Vδ2 subsets could be expanded and transduced to sufficient numbers for clinical studies. The CAR added to the cells innate cytotoxicity by enhancing GD2-specific killing of GD2-expressing cancer cell lines. Migration toward tumor  cells in vitro was not impaired by the presence of the CAR. Expanded CAR-transduced Vδ2 cells retained the ability to take up tumor antigens and cross presented the processed peptide to responder alpha beta T (αβT) lymphocytes. γδ CAR-T cell products show promise for evaluation in clinical studies of solid tumors."

"508. Mol Ther. 2018 Feb 7;26(2):342-353. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.10.019. Epub 2017 Nov 2.","CAR-T Cells: A Systematic Review and Mixed Methods Analysis of the Clinical Trial Landscape.","CAR-T cells are a promising new therapy that offer significant advantages compared with conventional immunotherapies. This systematic review and clinical trial landscape identifies and critiques published CAR-T cell clinical trials and examines the critical factors required to enable CAR-T cells to become a standard therapy. A review of the literature was conducted to identify suitable studies from the MEDLINE and Ovid bibliographic databases. The literature and database searches identified 20 studies for inclusion. The average number of participants  per clinical trial examined was 11 patients. All studies included in this systematic review investigated CAR-T cells and were prospective, uncontrolled clinical studies. Leukemia is the most common cancer subtype and accounts for 57.4% (n = 120) of disease indications. The majority of studies used an autologous cell source (85%, n = 17) rather than an allogeneic cell source. Translational challenges encompass technical considerations relating to CAR-T cell development, manufacturing practicability, clinical trial approaches, CAR-T  cell quality and persistence, and patient management."

"509. BioDrugs. 2018 Feb;32(1):1-7. doi: 10.1007/s40259-017-0257-y.","Therapeutic Cancer Vaccines: How Much Closer Are We?","The promise of immune-based therapies to treat cancer has been realized over the  last several years with several breakthrough therapies, including T-cell checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapies. While cancer vaccines have been investigated for many decades, to date only one has been approved in the USA as a treatment for existing cancer. The failure of several anti-tumor vaccines in large phase III trials has led many to question their future role in cancer treatment. Trials to date have demonstrated that many cancer vaccines can elicit tumor-specific T cells, but these T cells may be insufficient to mediate substantial anti-tumor effects without concurrent blockade of tumor-resistance mechanisms. Emerging data from preclinical models and clinical trials demonstrate that cancer vaccines have greater activity in low-volume disease and in combination with other immune-modulating therapies, including T-cell checkpoint blockade, targeting these resistance mechanisms. Because T-cell checkpoint therapies likely require the presence or activity of tumor-specific T cells, cancer vaccines may be optimal agents to use in combination to enable these therapies to work for greater numbers of patients. Future trials will explore optimal vaccine approaches and antigens that work best in combination treatment approaches and in earlier stages of disease."

"510. Biotechnol J. 2018 Feb;13(2). doi: 10.1002/biot.201700097. Epub 2017 Oct 30.","Cancer Immunotherapy Using CAR-T Cells: From the Research Bench to the Assembly Line.","The focus of cancer treatment has recently shifted toward targeted therapies, including immunotherapy, which allow better individualization of care and are hoped to increase the probability of success for patients. Specifically, T cells  genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs; CAR-T cells) have generated exciting results. Recent clinical successes with this cutting-edge therapy have helped to push CAR-T cells toward approval for wider use. However, several limitations need to be addressed before the widespread use of CAR-T cells as a standard treatment. Here, a succinct background on adoptive T-cell therapy (ATCT)is given. A brief overview of the structure of CARs, how they are introduced into T cells, and how CAR-T cell expansion and selection is achieved in vitro is then presented. Some of the challenges in CAR design are discussed, as well as the difficulties that arise in large-scale CAR-T cell manufacture that will need to be addressed to achieve successful commercialization of this type of cell therapy. Finally, developments already on the horizon are discussed."

"511. Biotechnol J. 2018 Feb;13(2). doi: 10.1002/biot.201700095. Epub 2017 Sep 18.","Bioengineering Solutions for Manufacturing Challenges in CAR T Cells.","The next generation of therapeutic products to be approved for the clinic is anticipated to be cell therapies, termed living drugs for their capacity to dynamically and temporally respond to changes during their production ex vivo and after their administration in vivo. Genetically engineered chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have rapidly developed into powerful tools to harness the  power of immune system manipulation against cancer. Regulatory agencies are beginning to approve CAR T cell therapies due to their striking efficacy in treating some hematological malignancies. However, the engineering and manufacturing of such cells remains a challenge for widespread adoption of this technology. Bioengineering approaches including biomaterials, synthetic biology,  metabolic engineering, process control and automation, and in vitro disease modeling could offer promising methods to overcome some of these challenges. Here, we describe the manufacturing process of CAR T cells, highlighting potential roles for bioengineers to partner with biologists and clinicians to advance the manufacture of these complex cellular products under rigorous regulatory and quality control."

"514. Cancer Lett. 2018 Feb 1;414:127-135. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.11.005. Epub 2017 Nov 8.","Targeting immuno-metabolism to improve anti-cancer therapies.","The immunology community has made significant strides in recent years in using the immune system to target and eliminate cancer. Therapies such as hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) are the standard of care treatment for several malignancies, while therapies incorporating chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells or checkpoint molecule blockade have been revolutionary. However, these approaches are not optimal for all cancers and in some cases, have failed outright. The greatest obstacle to making these therapies more effective may be rooted in one of the most basic concepts of cell biology, metabolism. Research over the last decade has revealed that T cell proliferation and differentiation is intimately linked to robust changes in metabolic activity, delineation of which may provide ways to manipulate the immuno-oncologic responses to our advantage. Here, we provide a basic overview of T cell metabolism, discuss what is known about metabolic regulation of T cells during allogeneic HSCT, point to evidence on the importance of T cell metabolism during CAR T cell and solid tumor therapies, and speculate about the role for compounds that might have dual-action on both immune cells and tumor cells simultaneously."

"516. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Feb 1;24(3):535-540. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-2871. Epub 2017 Nov 20.","CAR T-Cell Therapies in Glioblastoma: A First Look.","Glioblastoma is an aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis. The current standard of care for newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients includes surgery to the extent, temozolomide combined with radiotherapy, and alternating electric fields therapy. After recurrence, there is no standard therapy and survival is less than 9 months. Recurrent glioblastoma offers a unique opportunity to investigate new treatment approaches in a malignancy known for remarkable genetic heterogeneity, an immunosuppressive microenvironment, and a partially permissive  anatomic blood-brain barrier. Results from three first-in-man chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell trials targeting IL13Rα2, Her2/CMV, and EGFRvIII have recently been reported. Each one of these trials addresses important questions, such as T-cell trafficking to CNS, engraftment and persistence, tumor microenvironment remodeling, and monitoring of glioma response to CAR T cells. Objective radiologic responses have been reported. Here, we discuss and summarize the results of these trials and suggest opportunities for the field. Clin Cancer  Res; 24(3); 535-40. ©2017 AACR."

"517. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2018 Feb;30(1):25-29. doi: 10.1097/MOP.0000000000000572.","New developments in immunotherapy for pediatric leukemia.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Immunotherapy for the treatment of cancer has advanced at a tremendous pace over the last decade. In this review, we provide an overview of recent progress in immunotherapy for the treatment of leukemia, focusing on antibody-drug conjugates (ADC), bi-specific T-cell engagers (BiTE), and chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. RECENT FINDINGS: Ongoing clinical trials of CAR T cells directed against CD19 have produced complete remission rates as high as 93%, prompting global multicenter phase 2 trials and the first FDA approval of a CAR T-cell therapy. Insights into cytokine release syndrome, a toxicity of CAR T-cell therapy, and the cause for relapse after CAR T-cell therapy are evolving. The bispecific antibody blinatumomab and the ADCs inotuzumab and gemtuzumab have also recently received FDA approval for ALL and AML, respectively, moving these agents into a more prominent role in the relapse setting. SUMMARY: The use of immunotherapy for leukemia has been successful in creating durable remissions for multiply relapsed and refractory patients who previously had little chance of cure. The ongoing clinical and preclinical work continues to advance our understanding of these immune-based therapies, and will shape the next generation of clinical trials."

"518. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Feb;18(2):121-134. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1402002. Epub 2017 Nov 9.","Anticancer cellular immunotherapies derived from umbilical cord blood.","INTRODUCTION: The lack of highly effective drugs in many malignancies has prompted scientific interest in the development of alternative treatment strategies. Cellular immunotherapy involving the adoptive transfer of immune cells that potently recognize and eliminate malignantly transformed cells has become a promising new tool in the anticancer armory. Studies suggest that the unique biological properties of umbilical cord blood (UCB) cells could precipitate enhanced anticancer activity; hence, UCB could be an optimal source for immunotherapy with the potential to provide products with off-the-shelf availability. AREAS COVERED: In this review, the authors summarize data on the transfer of naturally occurring or genetically modified UCB cells to treat cancer. The focus  within is on the phenotypic and functional differences compared to other sources, the alloreactive and anticancer properties, and manufacturing of these products.  Therapies utilizing cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells, natural killer (NK) cells and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells, are discussed. EXPERT OPINION: The cellular immunotherapy field has become a growing, exciting area that has generated much enthusiasm. There is evidence that anticancer immunotherapy with UCB-derived products is feasible and safe; however, considering the limited number of clinical trials using UCB-derived products, further studies are warranted to facilitate translation into clinical practice."

"519. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2018 Feb;18(2):177-186. doi: 10.1080/14737140.2018.1418326. Epub 2017 Dec 21.","Peritoneal dissemination of ovarian cancer: role of MUC16-mesothelin interaction  and implications for treatment.","INTRODUCTION: Peritoneal dissemination is a particular form of malignant progression in ovarian cancer, preceding hematogenic or lymphatic dissemination.  Thus, prevention of peritoneal implantation of cancer cells is envisioned to inhibit neoplastic dissemination and therefore prolong disease remission and patients survival. Areas covered: An extended review on the role of MUC16 (CA125) and mesothelin (MSLN), expressed in a high percentage of ovarian carcinomas, indicate that this duet is relevant for the contact between cancer cells and mesothelial cells in homotypic (cancer cell-cancer cell) and heterotypic (cancer cell-mesothelial cell) interactions. This review discusses the reasons underlying the clinical failure of immunotherapeutic strategies targeting MUC16. Clinical data on MSLN targeting agents such as antibody-based immunotoxins or antibody drug conjugates are also reviewed. The promising anti-tumor effect of CAR-T cells directed to MUC16 or MSLN is emphasized. New emerging strategies specifically disrupting the MUC16-MSLN interaction are at the forefront of this review, including TRAIL ligands bound to MSLN targeting MUC16 expressing cells and single chain monoclonal antibodies and immunoadhesins recognizing MSLN-MUC16 binding domains. Expert commentary: Based on existing evidences the authors advocate that agents targeting MUC16-MSLN may add to the therapeutic armamentarium directed to abrogate peritoneal homing of ovarian cancer."

"520. Immunotherapy. 2018 Feb 1;10(4):265-282. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0136.","Emerging immune targets for the treatment of multiple myeloma.","We reviewed emerging immune strategies for multiple myeloma (MM) therapy excluding US FDA approved drugs. In relapsed refractory MM, isatuximab (anti-CD38) monotherapy achieved overall response (OR) of 24%. Other monoclonal antibodies that have shown efficacy in combination therapy include siltuximab (OR: 66%), indatuximab (OR: 78%), isatuximab (OR: 64.5%), pembrolizumab (OR: 60%), bevacizumab (OR: 70%), dacetuzumab (OR: 39%) and lorvotuzumab (OR: 56.4%).  No OR was observed with monotherapy using BI-505, siltuximab, bevacizumab, AVE-1642, figitumumab, atacicept, milatuzumab, dacetuzumab, lucatumumab, IPH2101, lorvotuzumab, BT062 and nivolumab. We included seven clinical trials on chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. CAR T-cell targets include BCMA, CD19, KLC and CD138. A recent experience of CAR T-cell (B-cell maturation antigen) therapy in advanced MM has shown global response of 100%. The future of monoclonal antibodies and adoptive T cells for MM treatment seems promising."

"522. J Immunother. 2018 Feb/Mar;41(2):73-83. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000193.","CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells From Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Display an Elevated IFN-γ Production Profile.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapy has demonstrated dramatic results for the treatment of B cell malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). As T cell defects are common in patients with CLL, we compared the T cells from these patients with healthy donors (HDs), and subsequently the CD19 CAR T cells produced from patients and HDs. Despite initial differences when comparing the phenotype of circulating T cells in patients with  CLL and HDs, the CD19 CAR T cells manufactured from patients or HDs cells showed a similar phenotype (effector memory or terminally differentiated), both were specifically activated by and killed CD19 target cells, and secreted cytokines (ie, IL-2, TNF, and IFN-γ). The frequency of CD19 CAR T cells producing IFN-γ was significantly higher in cells produced from patients as compared with those produced from HDs. Furthermore, our data showed that the polyfunctional profile of CD19 CAR T cells was differently modulated by CD19 K562 cells and autologous B cells. The increased IFN-γ production by CD19 CAR T cells produced from patients with CLL after in vitro stimulation, may if this is also the case in vivo, contribute to a higher risk of a cytokine release syndrome in patients.  The different impact by CD19 target cells on the polyfunctional profile of CD19 CAR T cells in vitro underlines the importance of the choice of CD19 target cells when assessing CD19 CAR T cells functions."

"523. Leukemia. 2018 Feb;32(2):402-412. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.302. Epub 2017 Sep 27.","A compound chimeric antigen receptor strategy for targeting multiple myeloma.","Current clinical outcomes using chimeric-antigen receptors (CARs) against multiple myeloma show promise in the eradication of bulk disease. However, these  anti-BCMA (CD269) CARs observe relapse as a common phenomenon after treatment due to the reemergence of either antigen-positive or -negative cells. Hence, the development of improvements in CAR design to target antigen loss and increase effector cell persistency represents a critical need. Here, we report on the anti-tumor activity of a CAR T-cell possessing two complete and independent CAR receptors against the multiple myeloma antigens BCMA and CS1. We determined that  the resulting compound CAR (cCAR) T-cell possesses consistent, potent and directed cytotoxicity against each target antigen population. Using multiple mouse models of myeloma and mixed cell populations, we are further able to show superior in vivo survival by directed cytotoxicity against multiple populations compared to a single-expressing CAR T-cell. These findings indicate that compound targeting of BCMA and CS1 on myeloma cells can potentially be an effective strategy for augmenting the response against myeloma bulk disease and for initiation of broader coverage CAR therapy."

"525. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Feb;97(7):e9992. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009992.","Pleural cavity cytokine release syndrome in CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell therapy: A case report.","RATIONALE: Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a common and potentially fatal complication of CAR-T cell therapy. However, compartment CRS is relatively rare in hematological malignancies, as well as in solid tumors. The pathogenesis and prognosis of compartment CRS are unclear and there is no standardized treatment yet. In this case report, we will introduce a patient developing pleural cavity CRS after CART19s infusion. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 28-year-old woman was admitted for evaluation of mediastinal  mass. Her relevant examinations were comoleted. DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL, non-GCB type). INTERVENTIONS: She received chemotherapies including 1 cycle of R-DAEPORCH, 1 cycle of R-CHOPE, 2 cycles of R-CHOP, and 4 cycles of R-GDP during the disease course. OUTCOMES: The cytokine levels of hydrothorax were considerably high when serum cytokines were within normal range, with IL-6 at 1212.45 versus 5.69 pg/mL. qPCR  analysis for CAR constructs showed 1,119,696 copies/μg DNA in hydrothorax and 522,227 copies/μg DNA in blood. LESSONS: The results indicated that CART19 cells trafficked to the pleural cavity and interacted with the CD19-positive lymphoma cells directly, causing cytokine release in situ."

"528. Nat Commun. 2018 Feb 1;9(1):468. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-02912-x.","Desensitized chimeric antigen receptor T cells selectively recognize target cells with enhanced antigen expression.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is an effective method for treating specific cancers. CARs are normally designed to recognize antigens, which are highly expressed on malignant cells but not on T cells. However, when T cells are engineered with CARs that recognize antigens expressed on the T cell surface, CAR T cells exhibit effector function on other T cells, which results in fratricide, or killing of neighboring T cells. Here, using human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR)-targeted CAR T cells, we show that weak affinity between CAR  and HLA-DR reduces fratricide and induces sustained CAR downregulation, which consequently tunes the avidity of CAR T cells, leading to desensitization. We further demonstrate that desensitized CAR T cells selectively kill Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B cells with enhanced HLA-DR expression, while sparing normal B cells. Our study supports an avidity-tuning strategy that permits sensing of antigen levels by CAR T cells."

"530. Toxicol Pathol. 2018 Feb;46(2):131-146. doi: 10.1177/0192623317752101.","T-cell Immunotherapies and the Role of Nonclinical Assessment: The Balance between Efficacy and Pathology.","Gene-engineered T-cell therapies have the potential to revolutionize the treatment of cancer. These therapies have shown exceptional clinical efficacy specifically in the field of B-cell malignancies and the first products (Kymriah™ and Yescarta™) have recently been approved in the United States for specific indications. The power of these treatments is also linked with a distinct set of  toxicities both predicted and unpredicted, including off-tumor activity, cytokine release syndromes, and neurotoxicity, occasionally with fatal consequences. As these therapies begin to reach more patients, it is critical to develop the nonclinical tools to adequately determine the mechanisms driving these toxicities, to assess the safety risks of candidate products, and to develop strategies for safety management."

"531. Transl Oncol. 2018 Feb;11(1):11-17. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2017.10.009. Epub 2017  Nov 10.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified T Cells Redirected to EphA2 for the Immunotherapy of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.","Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular carcinoma A2 (EphA2) is overexpressed in  more than 90% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) but not significantly in normal lung tissue. It is therefore an important tumor antigen target for chimeric antigen receptors (CAR)-T-based therapy in NSCLC. Here, we developed a specific CAR targeted to EphA2, and the anti-tumor effects of this CAR were investigated. A second generation CAR with co-stimulatory receptor 4-1BB targeted to EphA2 was developed. The functionality of EphA2-specific T cells in vitro was  tested with flow cytometry and real-time cell electronic sensing system assays. The effect in vivo was evaluated in xenograft SCID Beige mouse model of EphA2 positive NSCLC. These EphA2-specifc T cells can cause tumor cell lysis by producing the cytokines IFN-γ when cocultured with EphA2-positive targets, and the cytotoxicity effects was specific in vitro. In vivo, the tumor signals of mice treated with EphA2-specifc T cells presented the tendency of decrease, and was much lower than the mice treated with non-transduced T cells. The anti-tumor  effects of this CAR-T technology in vivo and vitro had been confirmed. Thus, EphA2-specific T-cell immunotherapy may be a promising approach for the treatment of EphA2-positive NSCLC."

"532. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Jan 31;8:210-221. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.01.010. eCollection 2018 Mar 16.","The Pharmacology of T Cell Therapies.","Adoptive cellular therapy using T cells with tumor specificity derived from either natural T cell receptors (TCRs) or an artificial chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has reached late phase clinical testing, with two CAR T cell therapies achieving regulatory approval within the United States in 2017. The effective use of these therapies depends upon an understanding of their pharmacology, which is  quite divergent from traditional small molecule or biologic drugs. We review the  different types of T cell therapy under clinical development, the factors affecting cellular kinetics following infusion, and the relationship between these cellular kinetics and anti-cancer activity. We also discuss the toxicity associated with T cell therapies, with an emphasis on cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, and the gaps in knowledge regarding these frequent and unique  adverse effects."

"533. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Jan 30;19(2). pii: E403. doi: 10.3390/ijms19020403.","Nanobody Based Dual Specific CARs.","Recent clinical trials have shown that adoptive chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is a very potent and possibly curative option in the treatment of B  cell leukemias and lymphomas. However, targeting a single antigen may not be sufficient, and relapse due to the emergence of antigen negative leukemic cells may occur. A potential strategy to counter the outgrowth of antigen escape variants is to broaden the specificity of the CAR by incorporation of multiple antigen recognition domains in tandem. As a proof of concept, we here describe a  bispecific CAR in which the single chain variable fragment (scFv) is replaced by  a tandem of two single-antibody domains or nanobodies (nanoCAR). High membrane nanoCAR expression levels are observed in retrovirally transduced T cells. NanoCARs specific for CD20 and HER2 induce T cell activation, cytokine production and tumor lysis upon incubation with transgenic Jurkat cells expressing either antigen or both antigens simultaneously. The use of nanobody technology allows for the production of compact CARs with dual specificity and predefined affinity."

"534. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Jan 24;19(2). pii: E340. doi: 10.3390/ijms19020340.","Incorporation of Immune Checkpoint Blockade into Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells (CAR-Ts): Combination or Built-In CAR-T.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy represents the first U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved gene therapy and these engineered cells function with unprecedented efficacy in the treatment of refractory CD19 positive hematologic malignancies. CAR translation to solid tumors is also being actively  investigated; however, efficacy to date has been variable due to tumor-evolved mechanisms that inhibit local immune cell activity. To bolster the potency of CAR-T cells, modulation of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment with immune-checkpoint blockade is a promising strategy. The impact of this approach on hematological malignancies is in its infancy, and in this review we discuss CAR-T cells and their synergy with immune-checkpoint blockade."

"535. Biomark Res. 2018 Jan 22;6:4. doi: 10.1186/s40364-018-0116-0. eCollection 2018.","Biomarkers of cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity related to CAR-T cell therapy.","Severe cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity following chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy can be life-threatening in some cases, and management of those toxicities is still a great challenge for physicians. Researchers hope to understand the pathophysiology of CRS and neurotoxicity, and  identify predictive biomarkers that can forecast those toxicities in advance. Some risk factors for severe CRS and/or neurotoxicity including patient and treatment characteristics have been identified in multiple clinical trials of CAR-T cell therapy. Moreover, several groups have identified some predictive biomarkers that are able to determine beforehand which patients may suffer severe CRS and/or neurotoxicity during CAR-T cell therapy, facilitating testing of early intervention strategies for those toxicities. However, further studies are needed to better understand the biology and related risk factors for CRS and/or neurotoxicity, and determine if those identified predictors can be extrapolated to other series. Herein, we review the pathophysiology of CRS and neurotoxicity,  and summarize the progress of predictive biomarkers to improve CAR-T cell therapy in cancer."

"536. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Jan 18;19(1). pii: E289. doi: 10.3390/ijms19010289.","BRAF and MEK Inhibitors Influence the Function of Reprogrammed T Cells: Consequences for Adoptive T-Cell Therapy.","BRAF and MEK inhibitors (BRAFi/MEKi), the standard treatment for patients with BRAFV600 mutated melanoma, are currently explored in combination with various immunotherapies, notably checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive transfer of receptor-transfected T cells. Since two BRAFi/MEKi combinations with similar efficacy are approved, potential differences in their effects on immune cells would enable a rational choice for triple therapies. Therefore, we characterized  the influence of the clinically approved BRAFi/MEKi combinations dabrafenib (Dabra) and trametinib (Tram) vs. vemurafenib (Vem) and cobimetinib (Cobi) on the activation and functionality of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-transfected T cells. We co-cultured CAR-transfected CD8⁺ T cells and target cells with clinically relevant concentrations of the inhibitors and determined the antigen-induced cytokine secretion. All BRAFi/MEKi reduced this release as single agents, with Dabra having the mildest inhibitory effect, and Dabra + Tram having  a clearly milder inhibitory effect than Vem + Cobi. A similar picture was observed for the upregulation of the activation markers CD25 and CD69 on CAR-transfected T cells after antigen-specific stimulation. Most importantly, the cytolytic capacity of the CAR-T cells was significantly inhibited by Cobi and Vem + Cobi, whereas the other kinase inhibitors showed no effect. Therefore, the combination Dabra + Tram would be more suitable for combining with T-cell-based immunotherapy than Vem + Cobi."

"537. Cancer Res. 2018 Jan 15;78(2):489-500. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-1911. Epub 2017 Nov 28.","TEM8/ANTXR1-Specific CAR T Cells as a Targeted Therapy for Triple-Negative Breast Cancer."," Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive disease lacking targeted therapy. In this study, we developed a CAR T cell-based immunotherapeutic strategy to target TEM8, a marker initially defined on endothelial cells in colon tumors that was discovered recently to be upregulated in TNBC. CAR T cells were developed that upon specific recognition of TEM8 secreted immunostimulatory cytokines and killed tumor endothelial cells as well as TEM8-positive TNBC cells. Notably, the TEM8 CAR T cells targeted breast cancer stem-like cells, offsetting  the formation of mammospheres relative to nontransduced T cells. Adoptive transfer of TEM8 CAR T cells induced regression of established, localized patient-derived xenograft tumors, as well as lung metastatic TNBC cell line-derived xenograft tumors, by both killing TEM8+ TNBC tumor cells and targeting the tumor endothelium to block tumor neovascularization. Our findings offer a preclinical proof of concept for immunotherapeutic targeting of TEM8 as a strategy to treat TNBC.Significance: These findings offer a preclinical proof of  concept for immunotherapeutic targeting of an endothelial antigen that is overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer and the associated tumor vasculature. Cancer Res; 78(2); 489-500. ©2017 AACR."

"538. J Immunol. 2018 Jan 15;200(2):459-468. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1701155.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy: Challenges to Bench-to-Bedside Efficacy.","Immunotherapy with T cells genetically modified to express chimeric Ag receptors  (CARs) that target tumor-associated molecules have impressive efficacy in hematological malignancies. The field has now embraced the challenge of applying  this approach to treat common epithelial malignancies, which make up the majority of cancer cases but evade immunologic attack by a variety of subversive mechanisms. In this study, we review the principles that have guided CAR T cell design and the extraordinary clinical results being achieved in B cell malignancies targeting CD19 with a single infusion of engineered T cells. This success has raised expectations that CAR T cells can be applied to solid tumors,  but numerous obstacles must be overcome to achieve the success observed in hematologic cancers. Potential solutions driven by advances in genetic engineering, synthetic biology, T cell biology, and improved tumor models that recapitulate the obstacles in human tumors are discussed."

"539. Mol Cancer. 2018 Jan 12;17(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s12943-018-0759-3.","Prospects for chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell therapy for solid tumors.","The potential for adoptive cell immunotherapy as a treatment against cancers has  been demonstrated by the remarkable response in some patients with hematological  malignancies using autologous T cells endowed with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CD19. Clinical efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy for the treatment of solid tumors, however, is rare due to physical and biochemical factors. This review focuses on different aspects of multiple mechanisms of immunosuppression in solid tumors. We characterize the current state of CAR-modified T cell therapy and summarize the various strategies to combat the immunosuppressive microenvironment of solid tumors, with the aim of promoting T cell cytotoxicity and enhancing tumor cell eradication."

"540. Oncotarget. 2018 Jan 12;9(17):13991-14004. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24179. eCollection 2018 Mar 2.","The development of CAR design for tumor CAR-T cell therapy.","In recent years, the chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells (Chimeric antigen receptor T cells, CAR-T) immunotherapy has developed rapidly, which has been considered the most promising therapy. Efforts to enhance the efficacy of CAR-based anti-tumor therapy have been made, such as the improvement of structures of CAR-T cells, including the development of extracellular antigen recognition receptors, intracellular co-stimulatory molecules and the combination application of CARs and synthetic small molecules. In addition, effects on the function of the CAR-T cells that the space distance between the antigen binding domains and tumor targets and the length of the spacer domains have are also being investigated. Given the fast-moving nature of this field, it is necessary to make a summary of the development of CAR-T cells. In this review, we mainly focus on the present design strategies of CAR-T cells with the hope that they can provide insights to increase the anti-tumor efficacy and safety."

"541. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Jan 10;11(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0553-5.","CAR-T cells targeting CLL-1 as an approach to treat acute myeloid leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is one of the most common types of adult acute leukemia. Standard chemotherapies can induce complete remission in selected patients; however, a majority of patients eventually relapse and succumb to the disease. Thus, the development of novel therapeutics for AML is urgently needed.  Human C-type lectin-like molecule-1 (CLL-1) is a type II transmembrane glycoprotein, and its expression is restricted to myeloid cells and the majority  of AML blasts. Moreover, CLL-1 is expressed in leukemia stem cells (LSCs), but absent in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), which may provide a potential therapeutic target for AML treatment. METHODS: We tested the expression of CLL-1 antigen on peripheral blood cells and  bone marrow cells in healthy donor and AML patients. Then, we developed a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) containing a CLL1-specific single-chain variable  fragment, in combination with CD28, 4-1BB costimulatory domains, and CD3-ζ signaling domain. We further investigate the function of CLL-1 CAR-T cells. RESULTS: The CLL-1 CAR-T cells specifically lysed CLL-1+ cell lines as well as primary AML patient samples in vitro. Strong anti-leukemic activity was observed  in vivo by using a xenograft model of disseminated AML. Importantly, CLL-1+ myeloid progenitor cells and mature myeloid cells were specifically eliminated by CLL-1 CAR-T cells, while normal HSCs were not targeted due to the lack of CLL-1 expression. CONCLUSIONS: CLL-1 CAR-T represents a promising immunotherapy for the treatment of AML."

"544. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Jan 9;7(3):e1395997. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1395997. eCollection 2018.","Intra-tumoral delivery of CXCL11 via a vaccinia virus, but not by modified T cells, enhances the efficacy of adoptive T cell therapy and vaccines.","T cell trafficking into tumors depends on a match between chemokine receptors on effector cells (e.g., CXCR3 and CCR5) and tumor-secreted chemokines. There is  often a chemokine/chemokine receptor mismatch, with tumors producing minute amounts of chemokines, resulting in inefficient targeting of effectors to tumors. We aimed to alter tumors to produce higher levels of CXCL11, a CXCR3 ligand, to attract more effector cells following immunotherapy. Mice bearing established subcutaneous tumors were studied. In our first approach, we used modified chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-transduced human T cells to deliver CXCL11 (CAR/CXCL11) into tumors. In our second approach, we intravenously (iv) administered a modified oncolytic vaccinia virus (VV) engineered to produce CXCL11 (VV.CXCL11). The effect of these treatments on T cell trafficking into the tumors and anti-tumor efficacy after subsequent CAR T cell injections or anti-tumor vaccines was determined. CAR/CXCL11 and VV.CXCL11 significantly increased CXCL11 protein levels within tumors. For CAR/CXCL11, injection of a subsequent dose of CAR T cells did not result in increased intra-tumoral trafficking, and appeared to decrease the function of the injected CAR T cells. In contrast, VV.CXCL11 increased the number of total and antigen-specific T cells within tumors after CAR T cell injection or vaccination and significantly enhanced anti-tumor efficacy. Both approaches were successful in increasing CXCL11 levels within the tumors; however, only the vaccinia approach was successful in recruiting T cells and augmenting anti-tumor efficacy. VV.CXCL11 should be considered as a potential approach to augment adoptive T cell transfer  or vaccine immunotherapy."

"545. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 Jan 8;495(2):1833-1838. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.12.041. Epub 2017 Dec 8.","Short-term culture with IL-2 is beneficial for potent memory chimeric antigen receptor T cell production.","Interleukin-2 (IL-2) has been extensively used to boost the bodys immune cells,  especially T cells. IL-2 is a cytokine that for many years was used to activate and amplify T cells. Due to its potent T cell growth-inducing functions in vitro, for many years, IL-2 was used for the culture and expansion of various T cell products, including tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), T cell receptors T cells (TCR T), or genetically engineered cells with chimeric antigen receptors T  cells (CAR T). Despite its positive effect on T cell production, the side-effect  is not well studied. Here, we reported that long-term culture with IL-2 promotes  terminal differentiation and impairs rather than boosts the function of chimeric  antigen receptor T cells. However, short-term culture with IL-2 predominantly generates memory CAR T cell favorable for cancer treatment."

"546. Front Immunol. 2018 Jan 8;8:1939. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.01939. eCollection 2017.","Methods of Controlling Invasive Fungal Infections Using CD8+ T Cells.","Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) cause high rates of morbidity and mortality in  immunocompromised patients. Pattern-recognition receptors present on the surfaces of innate immune cells recognize fungal pathogens and activate the first line of  defense against fungal infection. The second line of defense is the adaptive immune system which involves mainly CD4+ T cells, while CD8+ T cells also play a  role. CD8+ T cell-based vaccines designed to prevent IFIs are currently being investigated in clinical trials, their use could play an especially important role in acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients. So far, none of the vaccines used to treat IFI have been approved by the FDA. Here, we review current and future antifungal immunotherapy strategies involving CD8+ T cells. We highlight recent advances in the use of T cells engineered using a Sleeping Beauty vector to treat IFIs. Recent clinical trials using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy to treat patients with leukemia have shown very promising results. We hypothesized that CAR T cells could also be used to control IFI. Therefore, we designed a CAR that targets β-glucan, a sugar molecule found in most of the fungal cell walls, using the extracellular domain of Dectin-1, which binds to β-glucan. Mice treated with D-CAR+ T cells displayed reductions in hyphal growth of Aspergillus compared to the untreated group. Patients suffering  from IFIs due to primary immunodeficiency, secondary immunodeficiency (e.g., HIV), or hematopoietic transplant patients may benefit from bioengineered CAR T cell therapy."

"548. J Hematol Oncol. 2018 Jan 3;11(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0548-2.","Anti-GD2/4-1BB chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy for the treatment of Chinese melanoma patients.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells have demonstrated  promising clinical efficacy in patients with B cell lymphoma. However, the application of CAR-T cell therapy in the treatment of other solid tumors has been limited. We incorporated 4-1BB into the anti-GD2 CAR-T cells to test their cytotoxicity in melanoma in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we reported the expression of ganglioside GD2 in non-Caucasian melanoma populations for the first time, thus providing a basis for future clinical research. METHODS: This study included tumor samples from 288 melanoma patients at the Peking University Cancer Hospital & Institute. Clinical data were collected. Immunohistochemical assays using antibodies against ganglioside GD2 were performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens. The ability of ganglioside GD2 CAR-T cells to kill ganglioside GD2+ melanoma cells was evaluated in vitro and in a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model. RESULTS: Among the 288 samples, 49.3% of cases (142/288) demonstrated positive staining with ganglioside GD2. The median survival time in patients exhibiting ganglioside GD2 expression was significantly shorter than that in patients without ganglioside GD2 expression (31 vs. 47.1 months, P < 0.001). In the present study, CAR was constructed using a GD2-specific scFv (14.G2a), T cell receptor CD3ζ chain, and the CD137 (4-1BB) costimulatory motif. In addition, the  GD2.BBζ CAR-T cells demonstrated specific lysis of ganglioside GD2-expressing melanoma cells in vitro. In two PDX models, mice that received intravenous or local intratumor injections of GD2.BBζ CAR-T cells experienced rapid tumor regression. CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that the rate of GD2 expression in Chinese patients is 49.3%. GD2.BBζ CAR-T cells can both efficiently lyse melanoma in a GD2-specific manner and release Th1 cytokines in an antigen-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo. Anti-GD2/4-1BB CAR-T cells represent a clinically appealing treatment strategy for Chinese melanoma patients exhibiting GD2 expression and provide a basis for future studies of the clinical application of immunotherapy for melanoma."

"549. Mol Ther. 2018 Jan 3;26(1):31-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.10.002. Epub 2017 Oct 5.","Optimization of IL13Rα2-Targeted Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells for Improved Anti-tumor Efficacy against Glioblastoma.","T cell immunotherapy is emerging as a powerful strategy to treat cancer and may improve outcomes for patients with glioblastoma (GBM). We have developed a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapy targeting IL-13 receptor α2  (IL13Rα2) for the treatment of GBM. Here, we describe the optimization of IL13Rα2-targeted CAR T cells, including the design of a 4-1BB (CD137) co-stimulatory CAR (IL13BBζ) and a manufacturing platform using enriched central  memory T cells. Utilizing orthotopic human GBM models with patient-derived tumor  sphere lines in NSG mice, we found that IL13BBζ-CAR T cells improved anti-tumor activity and T cell persistence as compared to first-generation IL13ζ-CAR CD8+ T cells that had shown evidence for bioactivity in patients. Investigating the impact of corticosteroids, given their frequent use in the clinical management of GBM, we demonstrate that low-dose dexamethasone does not diminish CAR T cell anti-tumor activity in vivo. Furthermore, we found that local intracranial delivery of CAR T cells elicits superior anti-tumor efficacy as compared to intravenous administration, with intraventricular infusions exhibiting possible benefit over intracranial tumor infusions in a multifocal disease model. Overall, these findings help define parameters for the clinical translation of CAR T cell  therapy for the treatment of brain tumors."

"550. Acta Haematol. 2018;140(3):131-140. doi: 10.1159/000492146. Epub 2018 Sep 25.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cells with 4-1BB Co-Stimulatory Domain Present a Superior Treatment Outcome than Those with CD28 Domain Based on Bioinformatics.","BACKGROUND: The second-generation CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T co-stimulatory domain that is commonly used in clinical practice is CD28 or 4-1BB. Previous studies have shown that the persistence of CAR-T in the 4-1BB co-stimulatory domain appears to be longer. METHODS: The expression profile data of GSE65856 were obtained from GEO database. After data preprocessing, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the mock CAR versus CD19-28z CAR T cells and mock CAR versus CD19-BBz CAR T cells were identified using the limma package. Subsequently, functional enrichment analysis of DEGs was performed using the DAVID tool. Then, the protein-protein international (PPI) network of these DEGs was visualized by Cytoscape, and the miRNA-target gene-disease regulatory networks were predicted using Webgestal. RESULTS: A total of 18 common DEGs, 6 CD19-28z specific DEGs and 206 CD19-BBz specific DEGs were identified. Among CD19-28z specific DEGs, down-regulated PAX5  might be an important node in the PPI network and could be targeted by miR-496. In CD19-BBz group, JUN was a hub node in the PPI network and involved in the regulations of miR520D - early growth response gene 3 (EGR3)-JUN and mi-R489-AT-rich interaction domain 5A (ARID5A)-JUN networks. CONCLUSION: The 4-1BB co-stimulatory domain might play in important role in the treatment of CAR-T via miR-520D-EGR3-JUN and miR489-ARID5A-JUN regulation network, while CD28 had a negative effect on CAR-T treatment."

"551. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2018;995:97-116. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-02505-2_4.","Update on Immunotherapy in AML and MDS: Monoclonal Antibodies and Checkpoint Inhibitors Paving the Road for Clinical Practice.","In the past few years, our improved understanding of the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) has led to remarkable advances in the development of novel therapeutic approaches for these diseases. This chapter summarizes the available clinical data with immune-based therapeutic modalities in AML and MDS, focusing on monoclonal antibodies, T cell engager antibodies, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells, and checkpoint blockade via  blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 or CTLA4. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing in patients with AML and MDS, both in the frontline and relapsed refractory setting. Given the natural diversity of AML blasts, it became apparent that the best responses would be achieved with rationally designed combination strategies  of immune therapy, molecular therapy, and chemotherapy. A number of such combinations are enrolling patients with AML in various clinical settings. Biomarkers to select the optimal combination regimen for individual patients are  critical."

"552. Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Jan 1;8(1):106-119. eCollection 2018.","Antitumor effects and persistence of a novel HER2 CAR T cells directed to gastric cancer in preclinical models.","New immunotherapeutic approaches are urgently needed for gastric cancer due to its poor survival and unsatisfactory treatment. Here we applied the humanized chA21 scfv based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells approach to the HER2 overexpressing gastric cancer treatment. The chA21-4-1BBz CAR T cells specifically exerted Th1 skewed cytokine response and efficient cytolysis of HER2 overexpressing human gastric cancer cells in vitro. Both the cytokine production  and cytotoxicity levels were correlated with the level of HER2 surface expression by tumor cells. In established subcutaneous xenograft and peritoneal metastasis models, chA21-4-1BBz CAR T cells dramatically facilitated regression of HER2 overexpressing tumor and prolonged survival of tumor-bearing mice, whereas spared the progression of HER2 low-expressing tumor. Additionally, the capability of these CAR T cells to persist in circulation, as well as specifically home to, and accumulate in tumor sites were identified. Taken together, these results provide  the basis for the future clinical investigation of the humanized chA21 scFv based, 4-1BB costimulated CAR T cells for the treatment of gastric cancer, and other HER2-expressing solid tumors."

"553. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2018 Jan;24(1):27-31. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2017.10.017. Epub 2017 Oct 13.","Building a Safer and Faster CAR: Seatbelts, Airbags, and CRISPR.","Therapeutic T cell engineering has recently garnered widespread interest because  of the success of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy. CARs are synthetic receptors for antigen that redirect the specificity and reprogram the function of the T cells in which they are genetically introduced. CARs targeting  CD19, a cell surface molecule found in most leukemias and lymphomas, have yielded high remission rates in patients with chemorefractory, relapsed disease, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The toxicities of this treatment include B cell aplasia, cytokine release syndrome (CRS), and neurotoxicity. Although reversible in most instances, these toxicities may require specific medical interventions, including transfer to intensive care to treat severe CRS. Guidelines for managing these toxicities are emerging. The recent report of a nonhuman primate model for CRS is poised to help advance the management of this syndrome. Finally, new engineering  modalities, based on the use of targeted nucleases like CRISPR, may further enhance the efficacy and safety of CAR T cells."

"554. Cancer Biol Ther. 2018;19(9):745-754. doi: 10.1080/15384047.2018.1470722. Epub 2018 May 16.","Animal models for studying tumor microenvironment (TME) and resistance to lymphocytic infiltration.","In cancer immunotherapy, cytotoxic T or NK cells need to engage cancer cells to initiate the killing. However, in clinical studies and in mouse models, some solid tumors are found with no lymphocytes. It is likely that these tumors will be resistant to all sorts of immunotherapies. Thus, restoring lymphocytic infiltration will be vital to the success of immunotherapies on solid tumors. In  order to understand the complex interaction between cancer cells and stromal cells, we propose to establish animal models for studying the tumor microenvironment and to develop and test therapies to restore lymphocytic infiltration of tumors Without lymphocytes infiltrating tumors, all immunotherapies on solid tumors become ineffective."

"557. Cancer Immunol Res. 2018 Jan;6(1):47-58. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-17-0126. Epub 2017 Oct 27.","Reversible Transgene Expression Reduces Fratricide and Permits 4-1BB Costimulation of CAR T Cells Directed to T-cell Malignancies.","T cells expressing second-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CD5, a T-cell surface marker present on normal and malignant T cells, can selectively kill tumor cells. We aimed to improve this killing by substituting the CD28 costimulatory endodomain (28.z) with 4-1BB (BB.z), as 28.z CD5 CAR T cells rapidly differentiated into short-lived effector cells. In contrast, 4-1BB  costimulation is known to promote development of the central memory subpopulation. Here, we found BB.z CD5 CAR T cells had impaired growth compared with 28.z CD5.CAR T cells, due to increased T-cell-T-cell fratricide. We demonstrate that TRAF signaling from the 4-1BB endodomain upregulated the intercellular adhesion molecule 1, which stabilized the fratricidal immunologic synapse between CD5 CAR T cells. As the surviving BB.z CD5 CAR T cells retained the desired central memory phenotype, we aimed to circumvent the 4-1BB-mediated toxicity using a regulated expression system that reversibly inhibits CAR expression. This system minimized CAR signaling and T-cell fratricide during in vitro expansion in the presence of a small-molecule inhibitor, and restored CAR expression and antitumor function of transduced T cells in vivo These studies reveal a mechanism by which 4-1BB costimulation impairs expansion of CD5 CAR T cells and offer a solution to mitigate this toxicity. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(1); 47-58."

"558. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jan 1;24(1):95-105. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-2041. Epub 2017 Oct 23.","Regional Delivery of Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells Effectively Targets HER2+ Breast Cancer Metastasis to the Brain.","Purpose: Metastasis to the brain from breast cancer remains a significant clinical challenge, and may be targeted with CAR-based immunotherapy. CAR design  optimization for solid tumors is crucial due to the absence of truly restricted antigen expression and potential safety concerns with on-target off-tumor activity. Here, we have optimized HER2-CAR T cells for the treatment of breast to brain metastases, and determined optimal second-generation CAR design and route of administration for xenograft mouse models of breast metastatic brain tumors, including multifocal and leptomeningeal disease.Experimental Design: HER2-CAR constructs containing either CD28 or 4-1BB intracellular costimulatory signaling  domains were compared for functional activity in vitro by measuring cytokine production, T-cell proliferation, and tumor killing capacity. We also evaluated HER2-CAR T cells delivered by intravenous, local intratumoral, or regional intraventricular routes of administration using in vivo human xenograft models of breast cancer that have metastasized to the brain.Results: Here, we have shown that HER2-CARs containing the 4-1BB costimulatory domain confer improved tumor targeting with reduced T-cell exhaustion phenotype and enhanced proliferative capacity compared with HER2-CARs containing the CD28 costimulatory domain. Local  intracranial delivery of HER2-CARs showed potent in vivo antitumor activity in orthotopic xenograft models. Importantly, we demonstrated robust antitumor efficacy following regional intraventricular delivery of HER2-CAR T cells for the treatment of multifocal brain metastases and leptomeningeal disease.Conclusions:  Our study shows the importance of CAR design in defining an optimized CAR T cell, and highlights intraventricular delivery of HER2-CAR T cells for treating multifocal brain metastases. Clin Cancer Res; 24(1); 95-105. ©2017 AACR."

"559. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jan 1;24(1):106-119. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-0344. Epub 2017 Oct 23.","Lenalidomide Enhances the Function of CS1 Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Redirected T  Cells Against Multiple Myeloma.","Purpose: Multiple myeloma remains an incurable malignancy of plasma cells despite considerable advances in treatment. The purpose of the study was to develop novel chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) for the treatment of multiple myeloma and explore combinatorial therapy using CAR T cells and immunomodulatory drugs such as lenalidomide for increasing treatment efficacy.Experimental Design: We redirected central memory T cells to express second-generation CAR-specific for CS1 and adoptively transferred them into multiple myeloma tumor-bearing mice to test their anti-multiple myeloma activity. CS1 CAR T cells were transduced and expanded in the presence of lenalidomide in vitro The phenotype and effector function of CS1 CAR T cells treated with and without lenalidomide were compared.  Finally, CS1 CAR T cells and lenalidomide were administered to treat multiple myeloma-bearing mice as combinatorial therapy.Results: CS1 CAR T cells exhibited  efficient antitumor activity when adoptively transferred into mice. Mechanistic studies indicated that the addition of lenalidomide during CS1 CAR T-cell expansion in vitro enhanced the immune functions of CS1 CAR T cells, including cytotoxicity, memory maintenance, Th1 cytokine production, and immune synapse formation. Furthermore, lenalidomide enhanced the antitumor activity and persistence of adoptively transferred CS1 CAR T cells in vivoConclusions: The study demonstrates that lenalidomide improves the anti-multiple myeloma properties of CS1-directed CAR T cells and provides a basis for a planned clinical trial using the combination of lenalidomide with engineered T cells against CS1 in relapsed myeloma. Clin Cancer Res; 24(1); 106-19."

"560. Clin Immunol. 2018 Jan;186:54-58. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2017.09.016. Epub 2017 Sep  18.","CAR T cell immunotherapy in hematology and beyond.","Chimeric T cell receptors (CARs) combine extracellular antigen recognition domains and T cell activation components in single molecules. CAR gene transfer thereby allows to generate T cells with engineered specificities. The translational development of CAR-based T cell therapies is most advanced in B cell cancers where CAR-engineered T cells against the B lineage antigen CD19 have generated impressive results in early clinical trials. CARs are now also explored as tools to eliminate autoreactive B cell clones and to engineer T cells with immunosuppressive function for preventing pathological auto- or alloresponses. With ongoing intensive preclinical investigation and the advent of simplified manufacturing techniques, CAR T cells are expected to enter clinical investigation in a broader variety of hematological and solid cancers and in autoimmune diseases in the near future."

"561. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2018;19(1):5-18. doi: 10.2174/1389201019666180418095526.","CAR T-cell Therapy: A New Era in Cancer Immunotherapy.","BACKGROUND: Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Over the years, a number of conventional cytotoxic approaches for neoplastic diseases has  been developed. However, due to their limited effectiveness in accordance with the heterogeneity of cancer cells, there is a constant search for therapeutic approaches with improved outcome, such as immunotherapy that utilizes and enhances the normal capacity of the patients immune system. METHODS: Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy involves genetic modification of patients autologous T-cells to express a CAR specific for a tumor antigen, following by ex vivo cell expansion and re-infusion back to the patient. CARs are fusion proteins of a selected single-chain fragment variable from a specific monoclonal antibody and one or more T-cell receptor intracellular signaling domains. This T-cell genetic modification may occur either via viral-based gene transfer methods or nonviral methods, such as DNA-based transposons, CRISPR/Cas9 technology or direct transfer of in vitro transcribed-mRNA by electroporation. RESULTS: Clinical trials have shown very promising results in end-stage patients  with a full recovery of up to 92% in Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia. Despite such results in hematological cancers, the effective translation of CAR T-cell therapy to solid tumors and the corresponding clinical experience is limited due to therapeutic barriers, like CAR T-cell expansion, persistence, trafficking, and fate within tumors. CONCLUSION: In this review, the basic design of CARs, the main genetic modification strategies, the safety matters as well as the initial clinical experience with CAR T-cells are described."

"562. Curr Stem Cell Res Ther. 2018;13(5):327-335. doi: 10.2174/1574888X13666180420110239.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Based Immunotherapy for Cancer.","Cancer immunotherapy, a new weapon against cancers by harnessing the patients own immune system, potentiates an extended remission and possibly a cure for cancer. T cells genetically engineered with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) vectors can specifically target the surface antigen of cancer cells and kill them in an MHC-independent manner. CD19 is extensively expressed on cancerous cells in B cell malignancies. To target this antigen, CAR T cells have gained great success in treating patients with B cell leukemia and lymphoma. Currently, the data from clinical trials on CAR T cells in solid tumors are limited; thus, CAR T cells targeting GD2, HER2, EGFRvIII, CSPG4, DNAX, mesothelin, and other molecules are under active investigation for solid tumors. In this review, we summarize the clinical results for CAR T cells in the case of hematologic and solid tumors, along with the current developments in CAR T cell immunotherapy."

"563. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2018 Jan;18(1):65-75. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1384810.  Epub 2017 Oct 5.","Treating hematological malignancies with cell therapy: where are we now?","INTRODUCTION: Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) is becoming an increasingly successful  and widespread form of treatment for different types of cancer. Compared to chemotherapy or monoclonal antibodies, ACT is an active biological strategy, with infused immune cells featuring dynamic migration, expansion and long-term persistence properties. ACT in hematological malignancies offered the initial proof of principle of the feasibility for this innovative live-drug. AREAS COVERED: In this review, the authors summarize the clinical results achieved with two specific strategies in hematological malignancies: chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and T cell receptor (transgenic TCR) redirected T cells. Moreover, they discuss the recent pre-clinical studies aimed at increasing the feasibility, safety and efficacy of ACT. EXPERT OPINION: ACT can promote cancer regression in patients with leukemia, lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Nevertheless, more precise targeting of tumor cells and containment of side effects are needed. Overcoming tumor-associated immunosuppressive mechanisms and preventing tumor escape are also emerging as critical barriers. Finally, simplification in the manufacturing procedures should promote wider application of these technologies outside academic centers. Although the enthusiasm for ACT-based therapies is high, comprehensive and systematic clinical studies are required to advance the field."

"564. Expert Opin Orphan Drugs. 2018;6(10):563-566. doi: 10.1080/21678707.2018.1529562. Epub 2018 Oct 8.","CAR-T immunotherapy: how will it change treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and beyond?","Introduction: The recent approval of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells for refractory or second relapse of B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) has led to a paradigm shift. Besides being an alternative to chemotherapy and antibody-based approaches, CAR-T cells have become the first successful example of personalized medicine. Areas covered: In clinical trials, tisagenlecleucel demonstrated higher response  rates than prior therapies, and led to durable remissions lasting up to years for some children. Toxicities like cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, while potentially reversible, have limited usage of CAR-T cells at certified centers with expertise in cellular therapy. Strategies to deal with B-ALL relapse after CAR-T remain an open area of research. Expert opinion: Going forward, improvements will likely be seen in managing the side effects of CAR-T therapy as well as usage of CAR-T cells upfront as a replacement for chemotherapy or allogeneic bone marrow transplant for B-ALL. Further advances will need to reduce the biomanufacturing time needed to generate CAR-T cells as well as develop biomarkers that predict CAR-T persistence and/or toxicities."

"565. J Immunother. 2018 Jan;41(1):19-31. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000199.","Preclinical Optimization of a CD20-specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor Vector and  Culture Conditions.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-based adoptive T-cell therapy is a highly promising treatment for lymphoid malignancies, and CD20 is an ideal target antigen. We previously developed a lentiviral construct encoding a third generation CD20-targeted CAR but identified several features that required additional optimization before clinical translation. We describe here several improvements, including replacement of the immunogenic murine antigen-binding moiety with a fully human domain, streamlining the transgene insert to enhance lentiviral titers, modifications to the extracellular IgG spacer that abrogate nonspecific activation resulting from binding to Fc receptors, and evaluation of  CD28, 4-1BB, or CD28 and 4-1BB costimulatory domains. We also found that restimulation of CAR T cells with an irradiated CD20 cell line boosted cell growth, increased the fraction of CAR-expressing cells, and preserved in vivo function despite leading to a reduced capacity for cytokine secretion in vitro. We also found that cryopreservation of CAR T cells did not affect immunophenotype or in vivo antitumor activity compared with fresh cells. These optimization steps resulted in significant improvement in antitumor activity in mouse models, resulting in eradication of established systemic lymphoma tumors in 75% of mice with a single infusion of CAR T cells, and prolonged in vivo persistence of modified cells. These results provide the basis for clinical testing of a lentiviral construct encoding a fully human CD20-targeted CAR with CD28 and 4-1BB costimulatory domains and truncated CD19 (tCD19) transduction marker."

"566. J Thorac Oncol. 2018 Jan;13(1):16-26. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2017.10.001. Epub 2017  Oct 26.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-Cell Therapy for Thoracic Malignancies."," Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are patient T cells that are transduced with genetically engineered synthetic receptors to target a cancer cell surface antigen. The remarkable clinical response rates achieved by adoptive transfer of  T cells that target CD19 in patients with leukemia and lymphoma have led to a growing number of clinical trials exploring CAR T-cell therapy for solid tumors.  Herein, we review the evolution of adoptive T-cell therapy; highlight advances in CAR T-cell therapy for thoracic malignancies; and summarize the targets being investigated in clinical trials for patients with lung cancer, malignant pleural  mesothelioma, and esophageal cancer. We further discuss the barriers to successfully translating CAR T-cell therapy for solid tumors and present strategies that have been investigated to overcome these hurdles."

"569. Nat Med. 2018 Jan;24(1):20-28. doi: 10.1038/nm.4441. Epub 2017 Nov 20.","CD22-targeted CAR T cells induce remission in B-ALL that is naive or resistant to CD19-targeted CAR immunotherapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting CD19 mediate potent effects in  relapsed and/or refractory pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), but antigen loss is a frequent cause of resistance to CD19-targeted immunotherapy. CD22 is also expressed in most cases of B-ALL and is usually retained following CD19 loss. We report results from a phase 1 trial testing a new CD22-targeted CAR (CD22-CAR) in 21 children and adults, including 17 who were previously treated with CD19-directed immunotherapy. Dose-dependent antileukemic activity was observed, with complete remission obtained in 73% (11/15) of patients receiving ≥1 × 106 CD22-CAR T cells per kg body weight, including 5 of 5 patients with CD19dim or CD19- B-ALL. Median remission duration was 6 months. Relapses were associated with diminished CD22 site density that likely permitted CD22+ cell escape from killing by CD22-CAR T cells. These results are the first to establish the clinical activity of a CD22-CAR in B-ALL, including leukemia resistant to anti-CD19 immunotherapy, demonstrating potency against B-ALL comparable to that of CD19-CAR at biologically active doses. Our results also highlight the critical role played by antigen density in regulating CAR function."

"572. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2018 Jan;15(1):31-46. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2017.128. Epub 2017 Aug 31.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapies for lymphoma.","New therapies are needed for patients with Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphomas that  are resistant to standard therapies. Indeed, unresponsiveness to standard chemotherapy and relapse after autologous stem-cell transplantation are indicators of an especially poor prognosis. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are emerging as a novel treatment modality for these patients. Clinical trial data have demonstrated the potent activity of anti-CD19 CAR T cells against multiple subtypes of B-cell lymphoma, including diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), follicular lymphoma, mantle-cell lymphoma, and marginal-zone lymphoma. Importantly, anti-CD19 CAR T cells have impressive activity against chemotherapy-refractory lymphoma, inducing durable complete remissions lasting >2 years in some patients with refractory DLBCL. CAR-T-cell therapies are, however,  associated with potentially fatal toxicities, including cytokine-release syndrome and neurological toxicities. CAR T cells with novel target antigens, including CD20, CD22, and κ-light chain for B-cell lymphomas, and CD30 for Hodgkin and T-cell lymphomas, are currently being investigated in clinical trials. Centrally  manufactured CAR T cells are also being tested in industry-sponsored multicentre  clinical trials, and will probably soon become a standard therapy. Herein, we review the clinical efficacy and toxicity of CAR-T-cell therapies for lymphoma, and discuss their limitations and future directions with regard to toxicity management, CAR designs and CAR-T-cell phenotypes, conditioning regimens, and combination therapies."

"575. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2018 Jan;65(1). doi: 10.1002/pbc.26719. Epub 2017 Sep 4.","Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression is not a predominant feature in Ewing sarcomas.","BACKGROUND: Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) receptor engagement on T cells by its  ligand programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key mechanism of immune escape, and antibody blockade of the interaction has emerged as an effective immunotherapeutic strategy in some cancers. The role and relevance of the PD-1 checkpoint in Ewing sarcoma (EwS) is not yet understood. PROCEDURE: Here, we investigated expression of PD-L1 and PD-1 in EwS by immunohistochemistry analysis of pretherapeutic tumor biopsies and in tumor xenografts following treatment with human T cells engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against the tumor-associated antigen GD2 . PD-L1  surface expression in EwS cell lines was assessed by flow cytometry. RESULTS: PD-L1 expression was not detectable on tumor cells in any of the 60 EwS  biopsies. Infiltrating PD-L1 positive T cells were found in one tumor, and four biopsies contained PD-1-positive T cells. Of 13 EwS cell lines, none constitutively expressed PD-L1 on the cell surface. Interferon-γ cytokine stimulation induced upregulation of the ligand on all cell lines. Adoptive therapy with CAR gene-modified T cells in a mouse model did not induce PD-L1 expression in EwS xenografts despite tumor infiltration with PD-1+ CD3+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: EwS cells can upregulate PD-L1 under inflammatory conditions, but do not express the ligand in the pretherapeutic tumor microenvironment or postexposure to CAR T cells. PD-1 checkpoint blockade alone is thus unlikely to evoke potent immune responses against EwS. Identification of the relevant immune  evasion strategies in EwS will be vital for the development of effective immune targeting strategies."

"577. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2018;212:133-168. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-91439-8_7.","Ibrutinib.","Abnormal B-cell receptor (BCR) signalling is a key mechanism of disease progression in B-cell malignancy. Brutons tyrosine kinase (BTK) has a pivotal role in BCR signalling. Ibrutinib (PCI-32765) is a small molecule which serves as a covalent irreversible inhibitor of BTK. It is characterized by high selectivity for BTK and high potency. Ibrutinib is currently approved by the FDA and EMA for  use in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in any line of treatment, for treatment of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia in patients who have received previous treatments or are not suitable to receive immunochemotherapy as well as for second line treatment of mantle cell lymphoma and for patients with marginal zone lymphoma who have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based therapy. In addition, there  is emerging clinical data on its efficacy in ABC subtype diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, multiple myeloma and primary central nervous system lymphoma. Ibrutinib has opened new options for treatment of those patients that have relapsed or have been refractory to more classical modes of treatment. Moreover, Ibrutinib has been shown to be effective in patients that have been known to have little sensitivity to classical immunochemotherapy. Having a favourable risk profile, the substance is, unlike conventional immunochemotherapy, also suitable for the less physical fit patients. Cases of primary and secondary resistance to Ibrutinib have emerged and there is an ongoing effort to identify their mechanism and develop strategies to overcome them. Beyond its direct effects on survival and apoptosis of malignant B-cells, there is increasing evidence that Ibrutinib is able to modulate the tumour microenvironment to overcome mechanisms of immune  evasion. This has sparked interest in use of the substance beyond lymphoid malignancy. This chapter discusses structure, mechanism of action and toxicities  of Ibrutinib and also presents important preclinical and clinical data as well as mechanisms of Ibrutinib resistance. Combination strategies with immunotherapeutic strategies such as immune checkpoint blockade and CAR T-cell therapy may be synergistic and are currently under investigation."

"578. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(10):2189-2194. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.2189.","[Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for multiple myeloma].","CAR T-cell therapy is a novel cancer immunotherapy targeting cancer-specific cell-surface antigen. CD19-CAR T cells have been demonstrated to be highly efficacious in treating B-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Currently, several researchers  are developing CAR T cells for multiple myeloma. In some early-phase clinical trials, CAR T cells targeting B-cell maturation antigen have exhibited promising  efficacy. Recently, we reported that CAR T cells targeting the activated integrin 7 can selectively eradicate MM cells including CD19+ clonotypic B cells; a clinical trial for further assessment regarding this study is in process."

"579. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(10):1948-1954. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.1948.","[Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy for refractory/relapsed hematological malignancy].","Anti-tumor drugs have been the mainstay of cancer treatment; however, immunotherapy has been considered as supplementary, often less effective, and associated with toxicity. However, over the recent years, new types of immunotherapies have been developed, some of which are proving pivotal in current cancer treatment. Of these, chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy represents one of the promising types of immunotherapy, particularly for B-lineage malignancy treatment. Notably, many researchers are utilizing this technology for other types of cancer as well. Although it has some drawbacks such as lethal side-effects and extremely high costs, CAR-T cell therapy is estimated  to be a potential game changer in the field of cancer treatment. This review provides an overview of the current status and future prospects of CAR-T therapy."

"580. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(8):1058-1065. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.1058.","[Clinical development of CAR-T therapy for refractory multiple myeloma].","A chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprises an extracellular ligand recognition domain linked to CD3ζ and induces T-cell activation upon antigen binding. Recently, the potential of CD19-targeted CAR T-cells (CAR-T) to treat multiple myeloma has been explored. A group in the University of Pennsylvania reported that 4 out of 10 patients with refractory myeloma achieved an objective response  (sCR: 1, VGPR: 1, and PR: 2). Although the resultant cancer ablation was an arresting sight, it remains unclear whether CD19 is a suitable target for myeloma. Therefore, CAR-T therapy employing alternative target antigens is being  attempted. Some current clinical trials are utilizing CAR against differentiation antigens, including CD138, CD38, and kappa light chain. B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) is also a potential candidate. A group in the NCI described 12 patients with refractory myeloma enrolled in a BCMA-CAR phase 1 clinical trial. Two patients receiving the highest dosage attained an objective response. Nevertheless, considerable research is required for CAR immunotherapy to become universally available to patients with myeloma. The current enthusiasm for the development of this cutting-edge technology is justified because extraordinary evidence indicates that it is effective, although this may not apply to every case. CAR-T therapy for myeloma is currently undergoing rapid, wide-scale growth  both in academia and in industry-sponsored clinical development."

"581. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(5):529-538. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.529.","[Multiple myeloma: update on pathophysiology and management].","Proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs have substantially improved the  clinical outcomes in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) since 2000. In 2015, the new monoclonal antibodies, daratumumab and elotuzumab, were approved for treating relapsed and/or refractory MM (RRMM). Furthermore, venetoclax, a selective BCL-2  inhibitor, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy that work against B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) have reportedly shown great efficacy in phase 1  studies. The efficacy of venetoclax has been observed in RRMM with t (11;14) and  higher BCL-2/BCL-XL expression. BCMA CAR-T therapies have caused considerable remissions in highly refractory MM. These suggest that personalized medicine and  therapy aiming at cure are becoming reality in the near future. MM is a genetically complex and heterogeneous disease that develops via a multistep transformation process. Recent next-generation sequencing (NGS) studies have revealed the molecular landscape, providing insights into the biology, including  the intraclonal heterogeneity and disease progression in MM. In this review, we discuss the current knowledge regarding MM genomics reported by NGS studies as well as the recent progress in MM therapy. The agents and treatment reviewed here include elotuzumab, daratumumab, ixazomib, venetoclax, and BCMA CAR-T therapies."

"582. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(2):225-231. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.225.","[Immune cell therapy using iPS cells].","Adoptive cell therapy using tumor-infiltrating T cells has shown durable responses in patients with melanoma, and immunotherapy using genetically engineered T cells (TCR-T or CAR-T) is rapidly emerging as a promising treatment, especially for hematological malignancies. However, the progress is limited because of the lack of readily available good-quality human T cells. Although the efficacy of adoptive cell therapy correlates with the quality of infusing T cells, most antigen-specific T cells in patients with cancer have been exhausted. To overcome this, we have reprogrammed donor (or original) T cells to iPS cells (T-iPS) and differentiated these into rejuvenated antigen-specific cells (T-iPS-T). Moreover, iPS cells provide an unlimited source of genetically engineered T cells such as TCR/CAR-T or PD-1 knockout T cells. The iPS cells potential for immune cell therapy is infinite."

"583. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2018;59(2):216-224. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.59.216.","[Cancer immunotherapy using gene-engineered T cells].","Cancer immunotherapies using gene-engineered T cells comprise adoptive transfer of T-cell receptor (TCR) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) gene-transduced T cells. Although CD19-targeting CAR-T cell therapy is the most progressed, wherein B-cell malignancy is treated efficiently, it also induces cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity, which frequently leads to serious adverse events. Of  note, TCR-T cell therapy has been primarily used to target melanoma, resulting in 30%-50% of tumor responses. In clinical trials that target NY-ESO-1-expressing synovial sarcoma, a high efficacy of 50%-60% has been obtained. To date, no specific clinical efficacy has been reported for epithelial tumors. Serious on-target adverse effects in normal tissues have been reported when using affinity-enhanced TCR of mutated or mouse-derived ones. Furthermore, there are potential risks in using high-affinity TCRs and in targeting tumor antigens that  may also be expressed in normal tissues."

"584. Stem Cells. 2018 Jan;36(1):36-44. doi: 10.1002/stem.2715. Epub 2017 Oct 25.","Concise Review: Emerging Principles from the Clinical Application of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapies for B Cell Malignancies.","Gene-engineered T cell therapies are soon to be United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for at least two types of B cell malignancies in pediatric and adult patients, in the form of CD19 targeted chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy. This represents a triumph of a true bench to bedside clinical translation of a therapy that was conceived of in the early 1990s. Clinical results have demonstrated efficacious responses in patients with  the CD19 positive diseases B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and diffuse large  B cell lymphoma. However, significant challenges have emerged, including worrisome immune-related toxicities, therapy resistance, and understanding how to administer CD19 CAR T cells in clinical practice. Although much remains to be learned, pioneering clinical trials have led to foundational insights about the clinical translation of this novel therapy. Here, we review the lessons learned from the pre-clinical and human experience with CAR T cell therapy. Stem Cells 2018;36:36-44."

"585. Transplant Proc. 2018 Jan - Feb;50(1):104-109. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2017.11.028.","Establishment of a Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction Assay for Monitoring Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in Peripheral Blood.","BACKGROUND: The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) consists of an antigen recognition moiety from a monoclonal antibody fused to an intracellular signalling domain capable of activating T cells. The specific structure of the CAR molecule has been used in various basic research and clinical settings to detect CAR expression, but it is necessary to develop more specific and simpler monitoring methods to observe real-time changes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To develop a quantitative assay for the universal detection of DNA from anti-CD19 CAR-T cells, a TaqMan real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay was developed using primers based on FMC63-28Z gene sequences. We identified the numbers of copies of CAR gene on T cells transduced with the CAR gene that were obtained from peripheral blood. RESULTS: The assay had a minimum detection limit of 10 copies/μL and a strong linear standard curve (y = -3.3682x + 38.594; R2 = 0.999) within the range of the input CAR gene (10-107 copies/μL). The reproducibility test showed a coefficient  of variation ranging from 0.63%-1.65%. Real-time qPCR is a highly sensitive, specific, reproducible, and universal method that can be used to detect anti-CD19 CAR-T cells in peripheral blood."

"586. BMJ Open. 2017 Dec 29;7(12):e019321. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019321.","Efficacy and safety of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy in patients with haematological and solid malignancies: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis.","INTRODUCTION: Patients with relapsed or refractory malignancies have a poor prognosis. Immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells redirects a patients immune cells against the tumour antigen. CAR-T cell therapy has demonstrated promise in treating patients with several haematological malignancies, including acute B-cell lymphoblastic leukaemia and B-cell lymphomas. CAR-T cell therapy for patients with other solid tumours is also being tested. Safety is an important consideration in CAR-T cell therapy given the potential for serious adverse events, including death. Previous reviews on CAR-T  cell therapy have been limited in scope and methodology. Herein, we present a protocol for a systematic review to identify CAR-T cell interventional studies and examine the safety and efficacy of this therapy in patients with haematology  malignancies and solid tumours. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will search MEDLINE, including In-Process and Epub Ahead of Print, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from 1946 to 22 February 2017. Studies will be screened by title, abstract and full text independently and in duplicate. Studies that report administering CAR-T cells of  any chimeric antigen receptor construct targeting antigens in patients with haematological malignancies and solid tumours will be eligible for inclusion. Outcomes to be extracted will include complete response rate (primary outcome), overall response rate, overall survival, relapse and adverse events. A meta-analysis will be performed to synthesise the prevalence of outcomes reported as proportions with 95% CIs. The potential for bias within included studies will  be assessed using a modified Institute of Health Economics tool. Heterogeneity of effect sizes will be determined using the Cochrane I 2 statistic. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The review findings will be submitted for peer-reviewed journal publication and presented at relevant conferences and scientific meetings to promote knowledge transfer. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017075331."

"587. Blood. 2017 Dec 28;130(26):2838-2847. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-04-778423. Epub 2017 Oct 31.","SLAMF7-CAR T cells eliminate myeloma and confer selective fratricide of SLAMF7+ normal lymphocytes.","SLAMF7 is under intense investigation as a target for immunotherapy in multiple myeloma. In this study, we redirected the specificity of T cells to SLAMF7 through expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) derived from the huLuc63  antibody (elotuzumab) and demonstrate that SLAMF7-CAR T cells prepared from patients and healthy donors confer potent antimyeloma reactivity. We confirmed uniform, high-level expression of SLAMF7 on malignant plasma cells in previously  untreated and in relapsed/refractory (R/R) myeloma patients who had received previous treatment with proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs. Consequently, SLAMF7-CAR T cells conferred rapid cytolysis of previously untreated and R/R primary myeloma cells in vitro. In addition, a single administration of SLAMF7-CAR T cells led to resolution of medullary and extramedullary myeloma manifestations in a murine xenograft model in vivo. SLAMF7 is expressed on a fraction of normal lymphocytes, including subsets of natural killer (NK) cells, T cells, and B cells. After modification with the SLAMF7-CAR,  both CD8+ and CD4+ T cells rapidly acquired and maintained a SLAMF7- phenotype and could be readily expanded to therapeutically relevant cell doses. We analyzed the recognition of normal lymphocytes by SLAMF7-CAR T cells and show that they induce selective fratricide of SLAMF7+/high NK cells, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and  B cells. Importantly, however, the fratricide conferred by SLAMF7-CAR T cells spares the SLAMF7-/low fraction in each cell subset and preserves functional lymphocytes, including virus-specific T cells. In aggregate, our data illustrate  the potential use of SLAMF7-CAR T-cell therapy as an effective treatment against  multiple myeloma and provide novel insights into the consequences of targeting SLAMF7 for the normal lymphocyte compartment."

"589. PLoS Pathog. 2017 Dec 28;13(12):e1006753. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006753. eCollection 2017 Dec.","Long-term persistence and function of hematopoietic stem cell-derived chimeric antigen receptor T cells in a nonhuman primate model of HIV/AIDS."," Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cells have emerged as a powerful immunotherapy  for various forms of cancer and show promise in treating HIV-1 infection. However, significant limitations are persistence and whether peripheral T cell-based products can respond to malignant or infected cells that may reappear  months or years after treatment remains unclear. Hematopoietic Stem/Progenitor Cells (HSPCs) are capable of long-term engraftment and have the potential to overcome these limitations. Here, we report the use of a protective CD4 chimeric  antigen receptor (C46CD4CAR) to redirect HSPC-derived T-cells against simian/human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) infection in pigtail macaques. CAR-containing cells persisted for more than 2 years without any measurable toxicity and were capable of multilineage engraftment. Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) treatment followed by cART withdrawal resulted in lower viral rebound in CAR animals relative to controls, and demonstrated an immune memory-like response. We found CAR-expressing cells in multiple lymphoid tissues, decreased tissue-associated SHIV RNA levels, and substantially higher CD4/CD8 ratios in the gut as compared to controls. These results show that HSPC-derived CAR T-cells are capable of long-term engraftment and immune surveillance. This study demonstrates for the first time the safety and feasibility of HSPC-based CAR therapy in a large animal preclinical model."

"590. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Dec 26;7(3):e1407898. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1407898. eCollection 2018.","Development of chimeric antigen receptors targeting T-cell malignancies using two structurally different anti-CD5 antigen binding domains in NK and CRISPR-edited T cell lines.","Relapsed T-cell malignancies have poor outcomes when treated with chemotherapy, but survival after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) approaches 50%. A limitation to BMT is the difficulty of achieving remission prior to transplant. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown successes in B-cell malignancies. This approach is difficult to adapt for the treatment of T-cell disease due to lack of a T-lymphoblast specific antigen and the fratricide of CAR T cells that occurs with T-cell antigen targeting. To circumvent this problem two approaches were investigated. First, a natural killer (NK) cell line, which does  not express CD5, was used for CAR expression. Second, CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing  technology was used to knockout CD5 expression in CD5-positive Jurkat T cells and in primary T cells, allowing for the use of CD5-negative T cells for CAR expression. Two structurally distinct anti-CD5 sequences were also tested, i) a traditional immunoglobulin-based single chain variable fragment (scFv) and ii) a  lamprey-derived variable lymphocyte receptor (VLR), which we previously showed can be used for CAR-based recognition. Our results show i) both CARs yield comparable T-cell activation and NK cell-based cytotoxicity when targeting CD5-positive cells, ii) CD5-edited CAR-modified Jurkat T cells have reduced self-activation compared to that of CD5-positive CAR-modified T cells, iii) CD5-edited CAR-modified Jurkat T cells have increased activation in the presence  of CD5-positive target cells compared to that of CD5-positive CAR-modified T cells, and iv) although modest effects were seen, a mouse model using the CAR-expressing NK cell line showed the scFv-CAR was superior to the VLR-CAR in delaying disease progression."

"591. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2017 Dec 22;8:131-140. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2017.12.003. eCollection 2018 Mar 16.","Enhanced Expression of Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor in piggyBac Transposon-Engineered T Cells.","Adoptive T cell therapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells is a promising cancer immunotherapy. We previously developed a non-viral method of gene transfer into T cells using a piggyBac transposon system to improve the cost-effectiveness of CAR-T cell therapy. Here, we have further improved our technology by a novel culture strategy to increase the transfection efficiency and to reduce the time of T cell manufacturing. Using a CH2CH3-free CD19-specific CAR transposon vector and combining irradiated activated T cells (ATCs) as feeder cells and virus-specific T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, we achieved 51.4% ± 14% CAR+ T cells and 2.8-fold expansion after 14 culture days. Expanded CD19.CAR-T cells maintained a significant fraction of CD45RA+CCR7+ T cells and demonstrated potent antitumor activity against CD19+ leukemic cells both in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, piggyBac-based gene transfer may provide an alternative to viral gene transfer for CAR-T cell therapy."

"592. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 22;9(5):6536-6549. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23815. eCollection 2018 Jan 19.","T cell infiltration into Ewing sarcomas is associated with local expression of immune-inhibitory HLA-G.","Ewing sarcoma (EwS) is an aggressive mesenchymal cancer of bones or soft tissues. The mechanisms by which this cancer interacts with the host immune system to induce tolerance are not well understood. We hypothesized that the non-classical, immune-inhibitory HLA-molecule HLA-G contributes to immune escape of EwS. While HLA-Gpos suppressor T cells were not increased in the peripheral blood of EwS patients, HLA-G was locally expressed on the tumor cells and/or on infiltrating lymphocytes in 16 of 47 pretherapeutic tumor biopsies and in 4 of 12 relapse tumors. HLA-G expression was not associated with risk-related patient variables or response to standard chemotherapy, but with significantly increased numbers of tumor-infiltrating CD3+ T cells compared to HLA-Gneg EwS biopsies. In a mouse model, EwS xenografts after adoptive therapy with tumor antigen-specific CAR T cells strongly expressed HLA-G whereas untreated control tumors were HLA-Gneg. IFN-γ stimulation of EwS cell lines in vitro induced expression of HLA-G protein. We conclude that EwS cells respond to tumor-infiltrating T cells by upregulation  of HLA-G, a candidate mediator of local immune escape. Strategies that modulate HLA-G expression in the tumor microenvironment may enhance the efficacy of cellular immunotherapeutics in this cancer."

"593. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 21;9(7):7487-7500. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23556. eCollection 2018 Jan 26.","Retargeting of UniCAR T cells with an in vivo synthesized target module directed  against CD19 positive tumor cells.","Recent treatments of leukemias with T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) underline their impressive therapeutic potential but also their risk of severe side effects including cytokine release storms and tumor lysis syndrome. In case of cross-reactivities, CAR T cells may also attack healthy tissues. To overcome these limitations, we previously established a switchable CAR platform technology termed UniCAR. UniCARs are not directed against typical tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) but instead against a unique peptide epitope: Fusion of this peptide epitope to a recombinant antibody domain results in a target module (TM). TMs can cross-link UniCAR T cells with tumor cells and thereby lead to their destruction. So far, we constructed TMs with a short half-life. The fast turnover of such a TM allows to rapidly interrupt the treatment in case severe side effects occur. After elimination of most of the tumor cells, however, longer lasting TMs which have not to be applied via continous infusion would be more convenient for the patient. Here we describe and characterize a TM for retargeting UniCAR T cells to CD19 positive tumor cells. Moreover, we show that the TM can efficiently be produced in vivo from producer cells housed in a sponge-like biomimetic cryogel and, thereby, serving as an in vivo TM factory for an extended retargeting of UniCAR T cells to CD19 positive leukemic cells."

"594. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Dec 20;18(12). pii: E2773. doi: 10.3390/ijms18122773.","Lym-1 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells Exhibit Potent Anti-Tumor Effects against B-Cell Lymphoma.","T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) recognizing CD19 epitopes have produced remarkable anti-tumor effects in patients with B-cell malignancies. However, cancer cells lacking recognized epitopes can emerge, leading to relapse  and death. Thus, CAR T cells targeting different epitopes on different antigens could improve immunotherapy. The Lym-1 antibody targets a conformational epitope  of Human Leukocyte Antigen-antigen D Related (HLA-DR) on the surface of human B-cell lymphomas. Lym-1 CAR T cells were thus generated for evaluation of cytotoxic activity towards lymphoma cells in vitro and in vivo. Human T cells from healthy donors were transduced to express a Lym-1 CAR, and assessed for epitope-driven function in culture and towards Raji xenografts in NOD-scidIL2Rgammanull (NSG) mice. Lym-1 CAR T cells exhibited epitope-driven activation and lytic function against human B-cell lymphoma cell lines in culture and mediated complete regression of Raji/Luciferase-Green fluorescent protein (Raji/Luc-GFP) in NSG mice with similar or better reactivity than CD19 CAR T cells. Lym-1 CAR transduction of T cells is a promising immunotherapy for patients with Lym-1 epitope positive B-cell malignancies."

"595. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2017 Dec 19;8:41-51. doi: 10.1016/j.omto.2017.12.003. eCollection 2018 Mar 30.","CD19 CAR T Cells Expressing IL-12 Eradicate Lymphoma in Fully Lymphoreplete Mice  through Induction of Host Immunity.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy represents a significant advancement in cancer therapy. Larger studies have shown ∼90% complete remission  rates against chemoresistant and/or refractory CD19+ leukemia or lymphoma. Effective CAR T cell therapy is highly dependent on lymphodepleting preconditioning, which is achieved through chemotherapy or radiotherapy that carries with it significant toxicities. These can exclude patients of low performance status. In order to overcome the need for preconditioning, we constructed fully mouse first and second generation anti-murine CD19 CARs with or without interleukin-12 (IL-12) secretion. To test these CARs, we established a mouse model to reflect the human situation without preconditioning. Murine second generation CAR T cells expressing IL-12 were capable of eradicating established B cell lymphoma with a long-term survival rate of ∼25%. We believe this to be the first study in a truly lymphoreplete model. We provide evidence that IL-12-expressing CAR T cells not only directly kill target CD19+ cells, but also  recruit host immune cells to an anti-cancer immune response. This finding is critical because lymphodepletion regimens required for the success of current CAR T cell technology eliminate host immune cells whose anti-cancer activity could otherwise be harnessed by strategies such as IL-12-secreting CAR T cells."

"596. Sci Rep. 2017 Dec 18;7(1):17748. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-17669-4.","Fluorine-19 nuclear magnetic resonance of chimeric antigen receptor T cell biodistribution in murine cancer model.","Discovery of effective cell therapies against cancer can be accelerated by the adaptation of tools to rapidly quantitate cell biodistribution and survival after delivery. Here, we describe the use of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) cytometry to quantify the biodistribution of immunotherapeutic T cells in intact tissue samples. In this study, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells expressing EGFRvIII targeting transgene were labeled with a perfluorocarbon (PFC) emulsion ex vivo and infused into immunocompromised mice bearing subcutaneous human U87 glioblastomas expressing EGFRvIII and luciferase. Intact organs were harvested at day 2, 7 and 14 for whole-sample fluorine-19 (19F) NMR to quantitatively measure the presence of PFC-labeled CAR T cells, followed by histological validation. NMR measurements showed greater CAR T cell homing and persistence in the tumors and spleen compared to untransduced T cells. Tumor growth was monitored with bioluminescence imaging, showing that CAR T cell treatment resulted in significant tumor regression compared to untransduced T cells. Overall, 19F NMR cytometry is a rapid and quantitative method to evaluate  cell biodistribution, tumor homing, and fate in preclinical studies."

"598. Blood. 2017 Dec 14;130(24):2594-2602. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-06-793869. Epub 2017 Sep 19.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapies for multiple myeloma.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a nearly always incurable malignancy of plasma cells, so new approaches to treatment are needed. T-cell therapies are a promising approach for treating MM, with a mechanism of action different than those of standard MM treatments. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are fusion proteins incorporating antigen-recognition domains and T-cell signaling domains. T cells genetically engineered to express CARs can specifically recognize antigens. Success of CAR-T  cells (CAR-Ts) against leukemia and lymphoma has encouraged development of CAR-T  therapies for MM. Target antigens for CARs must be expressed on malignant cells,  but expression on normal cells must be absent or limited. B-cell maturation antigen is expressed by normal and malignant plasma cells. CAR-Ts targeting B-cell maturation antigen have demonstrated significant antimyeloma activity in early clinical trials. Toxicities in these trials, including cytokine release syndrome, have been similar to toxicities observed in CAR-T trials for leukemia.  Targeting postulated CD19+ myeloma stem cells with anti-CD19 CAR-Ts is a novel approach to MM therapy. MM antigens including CD138, CD38, signaling lymphocyte-activating molecule 7, and κ light chain are under investigation as CAR targets. MM is genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous, so targeting of  >1 antigen might often be required for effective treatment of MM with CAR-Ts. Integration of CAR-Ts with other myeloma therapies is an important area of future research. CAR-T therapies for MM are at an early stage of development but have great promise to improve MM treatment."

"599. Cell. 2017 Dec 14;171(7):1471. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2017.12.002.","CD19 CAR T Cells.","CARs are synthetic receptors that reprogram immune cells for therapeutic purposes. They comprise three canonical domains for antigen recognition, T cell activation, and costimulation. The CAR cDNA is genetically integrated in the T cell genome. Autologous CAR T cells are generated from the patients peripheral blood T cells and expand in the recipient to eliminate the targeted tumor. To view this Bench to Bedside, open or download the PDF."

"600. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 14;8(70):115215-115229. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23215. eCollection 2017 Dec 29.","An ultrastructural investigation of tumors undergoing regression mediated by immunotherapy.","While immunotherapy employing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells can be effective against a variety of tumor types, little is known about what happens within the tumor at an ultrastructural level during tumor regression. Here, we used transmission electron microscopy to investigate morphologic and cellular features of tumors responding to immunotherapy composed of adoptive transfer of dual-specific CAR T cells and a vaccine, supported by preconditioning irradiation and interleukin-2. Tumors responded rapidly, and large areas of cell death were apparent by 4 days after treatment. The pleomorphic and metabolically active nature of tumor cells and phagocytic activity of macrophages were apparent in electron microscopic images of tumors prior to treatment. Following treatment, morphologic features of various types of tumor cell death were observed, including apoptosis, paraptosis and necrosis. Large numbers of lipid droplets were evident in tumor cells undergoing apoptosis. Macrophages were the predominant leukocyte type infiltrating tumors before treatment. Macrophages decreased in frequency and number after treatment, whereas an increasing accumulation of neutrophils and T lymphocytes was observed following treatment. Phagocytic activity of macrophages and neutrophils was apparent, while T cells could be observed in close association with tumor cells with potential immunological synapses present. These observations highlight the cellular composition and ultrastructural appearance of tumors undergoing regression mediated by immunotherapy."

"601. Cell Rep. 2017 Dec 12;21(11):3205-3219. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.11.063.","CAR T Cells Releasing IL-18 Convert to T-Bethigh FoxO1low Effectors that Exhibit  Augmented Activity against Advanced Solid Tumors.","Adoptive therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T cells has achieved remarkable efficacy in the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies. However, eradicating large solid tumors in advanced stages of the disease remains challenging. We explored augmentation of the anti-tumor immune reaction by establishing an acute inflammatory reaction. Systematic screening indicates that  IL-18 polarizes CAR T cells toward T-bethigh FoxO1low effectors with an acute inflammatory response. CAR T cells engineered with inducible IL-18 release exhibited superior activity against large pancreatic and lung tumors that were refractory to CAR T cells without cytokines. IL-18 CAR T cell treatment was accompanied by an overall change in the immune cell landscape associated with the tumor. More specifically, CD206- M1 macrophages and NKG2D+ NK cells increased in  number, whereas Tregs, suppressive CD103+ DCs, and M2 macrophages decreased, suggesting that iIL18 TRUCKs can be used to sensitize large solid tumor lesions for successful immune destruction."

"604. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 5;8(67):111931-111942. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.22953. eCollection 2017 Dec 19.","The impact of antibiotic usage on the efficacy of chemoimmunotherapy is contingent on the source of tumor-reactive T cells.","In recent years the combined use of chemotherapy and immunotherapy, collectively  termed chemoimmunotherapy, has emerged as a promising treatment option for patients with cancer. Antibiotics are commonly used to reduce infection-related complications in patients undergoing chemotherapy. Intriguingly, accumulating evidence has implicated gut microbiota as a critical determinant of host antitumor immune responses, raising the question as to whether the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics would invariably diminish tumor response to chemoimmunotherapies. We investigated the impact of antibiotics on the therapeutic outcomes of cyclophosphamide (CTX) chemotherapy and adoptive T-cell therapy (ACT) where CTX was used as the host-conditioning regimen in mice. We show that antibiotic prophylaxis dampened the endogenous T cell responses elicited by CTX, and reduced the efficacy of CTX against B-cell lymphoma. In the  ACT setting, antibiotics administration impaired the therapeutic effects of adoptively transferred tumor-specific CD4+ T cells in mice with implanted colorectal tumors. In contrast, long-term antibiotic exposure did not affect the  efficacy of ACT using CD19-targeting chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells in mice with systemic B-cell lymphoma, although it correlated with prolonged CAR expression and sustained B-cell aplasia. Our study demonstrates that chemoimmunotherapies may have variable reliance on intestinal microbiota for T cell activation and function, and thus have different sensitivities to antibiotic prophylaxis. These findings may have implications for the judicial use of antibiotics in cancer patients receiving chemoimmunotherapies."

"605. Ann Hematol. 2017 Dec;96(12):1965-1982. doi: 10.1007/s00277-017-3148-x. Epub 2017 Oct 28.","The progress and current status of immunotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia.","Recently, there has been remarkable progress in basic and preclinical studies of  acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The improved outcomes of AML can largely be attributed to advances in supportive care and hematopoietic cell transplantation  as opposed to conventional chemotherapy. However, as the 5-year survival rate remains low due to a high incidence of relapse, novel and effective treatments are urgently needed. Increasing attention is focusing on identifying suitable immunotherapeutic strategies for AML. Here, we describe the immunological features, mechanisms of immune escape, and recent progress in immunotherapy for AML. Problems encountered in the clinic will also be discussed. Although current  outcomes may be limited, ongoing preclinical or clinical efforts are aimed at improving immunotherapy modalities and designing novel therapies, such as vaccines, monoclonal antibody therapy, chimeric antibody receptor-engineered T cells (CAR-T), TCR-engineered T cells (TCR-T), and checkpoint inhibitors, which may provide promising and effective therapies with higher specificity and efficacy for AML."

"606. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2017 Dec;30(4):336-340. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2017.09.002. Epub 2017 Sep 22.","Cytokine release syndrome: Who is at risk and how to treat.","T-cell engaging therapies such as blinatumomab and anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have revolutionized our approach to patients with relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, the immune activation responsible for high remission rates is also responsible for the unique treatment-related toxicity of cytokine release syndrome (CRS). The clinical signs of CRS include fever, hemodynamic instability, and capillary leak, which correlate with T-cell activation and elevated cytokine levels. Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor antagonist, provides control of severe CRS induced by CAR T cells without being directly T cell toxic. With blinatumomab, the approach to CRS has been largely preventative with administration strategies that include disease cytoreduction, corticosteroid premedication, and dose titration."

"607. Biomark Med. 2017 Dec;11(12):1149-1159. doi: 10.2217/bmm-2017-0138. Epub 2017 Nov 30.","The need for immune biomarkers for treatment prognosis and response in genitourinary malignancies.","Immune biomarkers encompass a wide range of blood-borne and cell-associated molecules whose detection or expression may change in response to an immune therapy. These immune therapies encompass a range of platforms including autologous cellular products, in other words, dendritic cells, prime boost DNA vaccines, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells and checkpoint inhibitors. The  response to checkpoint inhibitors by a particular cancer may not be necessarily associated with a change in a particular immune biomarker; other immune biomarkers are needed to assess their association with treatment response or a change in the biology that can impact on the immunologic milieu. How these potential biomarkers can be incorporated into clinical trial design, and their role in interrogating the immunologic milieu will be discussed."

"609. Bull Cancer. 2017 Dec;104(12S):S43-S58. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2017.10.017. Epub 2017 Nov 23.","[Prerequisite for hematopoietic cellular therapy programs to set up chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR T-cells): Guidelines from the Francophone Society of Bone Marrow Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (SFGM-TC)].","CAR T-cells are autologous or allogeneic human lymphocytes that are genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor targeting an antigen expressed  on tumor cells such as CD19. CAR T-cells represent a new class of medicinal products, and belong to the broad category of Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs), as defined by EC Regulation 2007-1394. Specifically, they are categorized as gene therapy medicinal products. Although CAR T-cells are cellular therapies, the organization for manufacturing and delivery is far different from  the one used to deliver hematopoietic cell grafts, for different reasons including their classification as medicinal products. Currently available clinical observations were mostly produced in the context of trials conducted either in the USA or in China. They demonstrate remarkable efficacy for patients  presenting advanced or poor-prognosis hematological malignancies, however with severe side effects in a significant proportion of patients. Toxicities can and must be anticipated and dealt with in the context of a full coordination between  the clinical cell therapy ward in charge of the patient, and the neighboring intensive care unit. The present workshop aimed at identifying prerequisites to be met in order for French hospitals to get efficiently organized and fulfill sponsors expectations before initiation of clinical trials designed to investigate CAR T-cells."

"612. Cancer Immunol Res. 2017 Dec;5(12):1152-1161. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-17-0189. Epub 2017 Nov 6.","Safety and Efficacy of Intratumoral Injections of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells in Metastatic Breast Cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are synthetic molecules that provide new specificities to T cells. Although successful in treatment of hematologic malignancies, CAR T cells are ineffective for solid tumors to date. We found that the cell-surface molecule c-Met was expressed in ∼50% of breast tumors, prompting the construction of a CAR T cell specific for c-Met, which halted tumor growth in immune-incompetent mice with tumor xenografts. We then evaluated the safety and feasibility of treating metastatic breast cancer with intratumoral administration of mRNA-transfected c-Met-CAR T cells in a phase 0 clinical trial (NCT01837602).  Introducing the CAR construct via mRNA ensured safety by limiting the nontumor cell effects (on-target/off-tumor) of targeting c-Met. Patients with metastatic breast cancer with accessible cutaneous or lymph node metastases received a single intratumoral injection of 3 × 107 or 3 × 108 cells. CAR T mRNA was detectable in peripheral blood and in the injected tumor tissues after intratumoral injection in 2 and 4 patients, respectively. mRNA c-Met-CAR T cell injections were well tolerated, as none of the patients had study drug-related adverse effects greater than grade 1. Tumors treated with intratumoral injected mRNA c-Met-CAR T cells were excised and analyzed by immunohistochemistry, revealing extensive tumor necrosis at the injection site, cellular debris, loss of c-Met immunoreactivity, all surrounded by macrophages at the leading edges and within necrotic zones. We conclude that intratumoral injections of mRNA c-Met-CAR T cells are well tolerated and evoke an inflammatory response within tumors. Cancer Immunol Res; 5(12); 1152-61. ©2017 AACR."

"613. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2017 Dec;36(4):585-598. doi: 10.1007/s10555-017-9698-5.","Emerging small molecule approaches to enhance the antimyeloma benefit of proteasome inhibitors.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a clonal plasma cell malignancy which, despite recent treatment advances, remains incurable in the vast majority of the over 118,000 patients in the USA afflicted with this disease. Treatment of MM has dramatically improved in the past decade with the introduction of new drugs into therapeutic strategies in both the frontline and relapse settings that has led to a significant improvement in the median overall survival (OS). These drugs have been incorporated into clinical guidelines and transformed the treatment approach to MM. Numerous classes of antimyeloma agents, i.e., alkylators, steroids, proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory agents, deactylase inhibitors, and monoclonal antibodies, are now FDA-approved and can be combined in doublet or triplet regimens. Moreover, many patients do not respond to therapy and those that do eventually relapse. Emerging therapies that may overcome drug resistance  and improve MM treatment include that inhibit regulatory and Ub-processing components of the proteasome, a specialized variant of the proteasome known as the immunoproteasome, proteolysis-targeting chimeric molecules (PROTACS and Degronomids). Emerging strategies also include accessory plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), vaccines, checkpoint inhibitors, and chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T (CAR-T) cells. Advances in understanding proteasome and plasma cell biology may allow for earlier treatment of MM patients using rationally informed combination therapies with curative potential."

"614. Chin Clin Oncol. 2017 Dec;6(6):66. doi: 10.21037/cco.2017.09.04. Epub 2017 Oct 24.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T and other T cell strategies for pancreas adenocarcinoma.","Treatments in metastatic pancreas cancer remain based in cytotoxic chemotherapy,  and novel treatment strategies are needed. Building on the emerging role of T cell therapy in hematologic malignancies and our understanding of the underlying  biology of pancreas cancer, research is growing in the role of T cell therapy for patients with solid tumors in general and more specifically patients with pancreas cancer. This review will focus on describing the biology of T cell therapy and its current applications in pancreas cancer."

"615. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2017 Dec;12(6):522-529. doi: 10.1007/s11899-017-0417-7.","Genome-Editing Technologies in Adoptive T Cell Immunotherapy for Cancer.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In this review, we discuss the most recent developments in gene-editing technology and discuss their application to adoptive T cell immunotherapy. RECENT FINDINGS: Engineered T cell therapies targeting cancer antigens have demonstrated significant efficacy in specific patient populations. Most impressively, CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CART19) have led to impressive responses in patients with B-cell leukemia and lymphoma. CTL019, or KYMRIAH™ (tisagenlecleucel), a CD19 CAR T cell product developed by Novartis and  the University of Pennsylvania, was recently approved for clinical use by the Food and Drug Administration, representing a landmark in the application of adoptive T cell therapies. As CART19 enters routine clinical use, improving the efficacy of this exciting platform is the next step in broader application. Novel gene-editing technologies like CRISPR-Cas9 allow facile editing of specific genes within the genome, generating a powerful platform to further optimize the activity of engineered T cells."

"616. Curr Surg Rep. 2017 Dec;5. pii: 31. Epub 2017 Oct 10.","Immunotherapy for Breast Cancer: Current and Future Strategies.","Purpose of Review: The breast tumor microenvironment is immunosuppressive and is  increasingly recognized to play a significant role in tumorigenesis. A deeper understanding of normal and aberrant interactions between malignant and immune cells has allowed researchers to harness the immune system with novel immunotherapy strategies, many of which have shown promise in breast cancer. This review discusses the application of immunotherapy to the treatment of breast cancer. Recent Findings: Both basic science and clinical trial data are rapidly developing in the use of immunotherapy for breast cancer. The current clinical trial landscape includes therapeutic vaccines, immune checkpoint blockade, antibodies, cytokines, and adoptive cell therapy. Summary: Despite early failures, the application of immunotherapeutic strategies  to the treatment of breast cancer holds promise."

"617. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 2017 Dec;38:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.cytogfr.2017.10.002.  Epub 2017 Oct 5.","Innovative Therapy, Monoclonal Antibodies and Beyond.","The seventh Edition of Innovative Therapy, Monoclonal Antibodies and Beyond Meeting took place in Milan, Italy, on January 27, 2017. The two sessions of the  meeting were focused on: 1) Preclinical assays and novel biotargets; and 2) monoclonal antibodies, cell therapies and targeted molecules. Between these two sessions, a lecture entitled HLA-antigens modulation and response to immune checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy was also presented. Despite the impressive successes in cancer immunotherapy in recent years, the response to immune based interventions occurs only in a minority of patients (∼20%). Several basic and translational mechanisms of resistance to immune checkpoint blockers (ICBs) were  discussed during the meeting: 1. the impact of tumor microenvironment on the activity of immune system; 2. strategies to inhibit the cross-talk between extracellular matrix and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in the preclinical setting; 3. microRNA expression as a biomarker and as a target of therapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); 4. the significance of complement  activation pathways in response to immune checkpoint inhibitors; 5. the immunosuppressive activity of the microbiota by inducing IL-17 producing cells; and 6. modulation of HLA antigens as possible markers of response to ICB therapy. In order to overcome the deficiency in active anti-tumor T cells, several clinically applicable combination strategies were also discussed: 1. strategies to enhance the anticancer effects of immunogenic cell death inducing-chemotherapy; 2. the use of CAR T-cells in solid tumors; 3. the use of combination strategies involving oncolytic viruses and ICBs; 4. combinations of new ICBs with anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 therapy; and 4. combinations of targeted therapies and ICBs in melanoma. Overall, this conference emphasized the many novel strategies that are being investigated to improve the overall patient response to cancer immunotherapy. Optimization of biomarkers to accurately select patients who will respond to immunotherapy, coupled with combination strategies to improve long term patient survival remain critical challenges in the immuno-oncology field."

"618. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2017 Dec;17(12):1511-1522. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2017.1375095. Epub 2017 Sep 6.","Adoptive cell therapy in multiple Myeloma.","INTRODUCTION: Recent breakthrough advances in Multiple Myeloma (MM) immunotherapy have been achieved with the approval of the first two monoclonal antibodies, elotuzumab and daratumumab. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) represents yet another, maybe the most powerful modality of immunotherapy, in which allogeneic or autologous effector cells are expanded and activated ex vivo followed by their re-infusion back into patients. Infused effector cells belong to two categories:  naturally occurring, non-engineered cells (donor lymphocyte infusion, myeloma infiltrating lymphocytes, deltagamma T cells) or genetically- engineered antigen-specific cells (chimeric antigen receptor T or NK cells, TCR-engineered cells). Areas covered: This review article summarizes our up-to-date knowledge on ACT in MM, its promises, and upcoming strategies to both overcome its toxicity and to integrate it into future treatment paradigms. Expert opinion: Early results of clinical studies using CAR T cells or TCR- engineered T cells in relapsed and refractory MM are particularly exciting, indicating the potential of long-term disease control or even cure. Despite several caveats including toxicity, costs and restricted availability in particular, these forms of immunotherapy are likely to once more revolutionize MM therapy."

"619. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2017 Dec;17(12):1099-1106. doi: 10.1080/14737140.2017.1395285. Epub 2017 Oct 26.","Chimeric antigen receptor-T cell therapy for solid tumors require new clinical regimens.","INTRODUCTION: Chimeric antigen receptor modified T cell (CAR-T) therapy has achieved encouraging breakthroughs in the treatment of hematological malignancies. Nevertheless, this success has not yet been extrapolated to solid tumors. This review focuses on new clinical regimens that could improve the therapeutic efficacy of CAR-T in solid tumors. Areas covered: Herein, the authors reviewed recent clinical trials using CAR-T therapies for the treatment of solid  tumors. Specifically, this review covered the following areas: (1) the current status of CAR-T cells in the treatment of solid tumors; (2) the major factors constraining the efficacy of CAR-T cells in solid tumors; and (3) opinions regarding the future of CAR-T as a treatment for solid tumors. Expert commentary: While some recent studies have shown promising results, the ultimate success of CAR-T therapies in solid tumor patients will require the following improvements to clinical regimens: (1) local delivery of CAR-T cells; (2) combination of CAR-T cells with chemotherapeutic drugs to treat metastatic tumors; (3) combination of  CAR-T with immune checkpoint inhibitors; (4) combination therapy using CAR-T cells targeting two different antigens; and (5) the use of CAR-T as a strategy to prevent tumor recurrence and metastasis after radical resection."

"620. Hum Gene Ther. 2017 Dec;28(12):1147-1157. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.126.","CD20-CD19 Bispecific CAR T Cells for the Treatment of B-Cell Malignancies.","The treatment of leukemia/lymphoma by chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) redirected  T cells with specificity for CD19 induced complete remissions in the majority of  patients, with a realistic hope for cure. However, recent follow-up data revealed a substantial risk of relapse through leukemic cells that lack the CAR targeted antigen. In this situation, a bispecific CAR with binding domains for CD19 and CD20 is aimed at recognizing leukemic cells with only one cognate antigen. The anti-CD20-CD19 bispecific CAR induced a full T-cell response upon engagement of CD19 or CD20 on target cells showing a true OR gate recognition in redirecting  T-cell activation. T cells with the anti-CD20-CD19 CAR efficiently killed patients chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro. The bispecific CAR T cells cleared pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia with a mixed CD19+CD20+/CD20- phenotype from the blood and bone marrow of transplanted mice, while anti-CD20 CAR T cells left CD20- leukemic cells behind without curing the disease. Data indicate the superior anti-leukemic activity in the control of leukemia, implying that the anti-CD20-CD19 bispecific CAR T cells may reduce the risk of relapse through antigen-loss leukemic cells in the long term."

"621. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2017 Dec;28(6):302-309. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2017.083. Epub 2017 Jul 24.","Genetic Modification of T Cells with Chimeric Antigen Receptors: A Laboratory Manual.","Redirected T cells genetically modified with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) have induced spectacular remissions of refractory leukemia/lymphoma in early phase trials, attracting interest to use CAR T cells in a variety of other applications including solid cancer and nonmalignant diseases. However, extensive preclinical explorations demand highly effective and robust procedures for the genetic modification of blood T cells; the same applies for engineering with a recombinant T cell receptor. We present laboratory procedures in a step-by-step protocol to engineer human and mouse T cells with a CAR by γ-retro- or lentiviral transduction for further preclinical testing."

"622. J Autoimmun. 2017 Dec;85:141-152. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2017.08.003. Epub 2017 Aug  24.","Redirecting T cells with Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) for the treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common cancer in children. Nowadays the survival rate is around 85%. Nevertheless, an urgent clinical need is still represented by primary refractory and relapsed patients who do not significantly benefit from standard approaches, including chemo-radiotherapy and  hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). For this reason, immunotherapy has so far represented a challenging novel treatment opportunity, including, as the most validated therapeutic options, cancer vaccines, donor-lymphocyte infusions and tumor-specific immune effector cells. More recently, unexpected positive clinical results in ALL have been achieved by application of gene-engineered chimeric antigen expressing (CAR) T cells. Several CAR designs across different trials have generated similar response rates, with Complete Response (CR) of 60-90% at 1 month and an Event-Free Survival (EFS) of 70% at 6 months. Relevant challenges anyway remain to be addressed, such as amelioration of technical, cost and feasibility aspects of cell and gene manipulation and the  necessity to face the occurrence of relapse mechanisms. This review describes the state of the art of ALL immunotherapies, the novelties in terms of gene manipulation approaches and the problems emerged from early clinical studies. We  describe and discuss the process of clinical translation, including the design of a cell manufacturing protocol, vector production and regulatory issues. Multiple  antigen targeting and combination of CAR T cells with molecular targeted drugs have also been evaluated as latest strategies to prevail over immune-evasion."

"623. J Leukoc Biol. 2017 Dec;102(6):1347-1356. doi: 10.1189/jlb.5RU0817-315R. Epub 2017 Oct 10.","Acute lymphoblastic leukemia relapse after CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy.","CART19 therapy has revolutionized the treatment of CD19+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia, demonstrating an unprecedented complete remission rate; however, as follow-up prolongs, a high relapse rate after CART19 therapy has emerged as one of the major problems. Relapse can be attributed to the loss of leukemic cell immunogenicity, diminished function and amount of CART19 cells, and the inhibitory bone marrow microenvironment. Although studies to prevent and treat relapse have begun, some encouraging results have demonstrated the possibility of decreasing the relapse rate. In this review, we focus on the possible mechanisms  behind relapse. We will summarize and propose strategies to prevent and manage relapse on the basis of these potential mechanisms."

"624. Leukemia. 2017 Dec;31(12):2587-2593. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.145. Epub 2017 May 15.","High efficacy and safety of low-dose CD19-directed CAR-T cell therapy in 51 refractory or relapsed B acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients.","Refractory or relapsed B lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients have a dismal outcome with current therapy. We treated 42 primary refractory/hematological relapsed (R/R) and 9 refractory minimal residual disease by flow cytometry (FCM-MRD+) B-ALL patients with optimized second generation CD19-directed CAR-T cells. The CAR-T-cell infusion dosages were initially ranged from 0.05 to 14 × 105/kg and were eventually settled at 1 × 105/kg for the most recent 20 cases. 36/40 (90%) evaluated R/R patients achieved complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi), and 9/9 (100%) FCM-MRD+ patients achieved MRD-.  All of the most recent 20 patients achieved CR/CRi. Most cases only experienced mild to moderate CRS. 8/51 cases had seizures that were relieved by early intervention. Twenty three of twenty seven CR/CRi patients bridged to allogeneic  hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HCT) remained in MRD- with a median follow-up time of 206 (45-427) days, whereas 9 of 18 CR/CRi patients without allo-HCT relapsed. Our results indicate that a low CAR-T-cell dosage of 1 × 105/kg, is effective and safe for treating refractory or relapsed B-ALL, and subsequent allo-HCT could further reduce the relapse rate."

"628. Protein Cell. 2017 Dec;8(12):861-877. doi: 10.1007/s13238-017-0415-5. Epub 2017 May 9.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified natural killer cell-based immunotherapy  and immunological synapse formation in cancer and HIV."," Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells contribute to the bodys immune defenses. Current chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cell immunotherapy shows strong promise for treating various cancers and infectious diseases. Although CAR-modified NK cell immunotherapy is rapidly gaining attention, its clinical applications are mainly focused on preclinical investigations using the NK92 cell line. Despite recent advances in CAR-modified  T cell immunotherapy, cost and severe toxicity have hindered its widespread use.  To alleviate these disadvantages of CAR-modified T cell immunotherapy, additional cytotoxic cell-mediated immunotherapies are urgently needed. The unique biology of NK cells allows them to serve as a safe, effective, alternative immunotherapeutic strategy to CAR-modified T cells in the clinic. While the fundamental mechanisms underlying the cytotoxicity and side effects of CAR-modified T and NK cell immunotherapies remain poorly understood, the formation of the immunological synapse (IS) between CAR-modified T or NK cells and their susceptible target cells is known to be essential. The role of the IS in CAR T and NK cell immunotherapies will allow scientists to harness the power of CAR-modified T and NK cells to treat cancer and infectious diseases. In this review, we highlight the potential applications of CAR-modified NK cells to treat cancer and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and discuss the challenges and possible future directions of CAR-modified NK cell immunotherapy, as well as the  importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms of CAR-modified T cell- or NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity and side effects, with a focus on the CAR-modified  NK cell IS."

"629. Protein Cell. 2017 Dec;8(12):896-925. doi: 10.1007/s13238-017-0400-z. Epub 2017 May 2.","Current status and perspectives of chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells for cancer treatment.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a recombinant immunoreceptor combining an antibody-derived targeting fragment with signaling domains capable of activating  cells, which endows T cells with the ability to recognize tumor-associated surface antigens independent of the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. Recent early-phase clinical trials of CAR-modified T (CAR-T) cells for relapsed or refractory B cell malignancies have demonstrated promising results (that is, anti-CD19 CAR-T in B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL)). Given this success, broadening the clinical experience of CAR-T cell therapy beyond hematological malignancies has been actively investigated. Here we discuss the basic design of CAR and review the clinical results from the studies of CAR-T cells in B cell leukemia and lymphoma, and several solid tumors. We additionally discuss the major challenges in the further development and strategies for increasing anti-tumor activity and safety, as well as for successful commercial translation."

"631. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Dec;25(6):1829-1832. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2017.06.046.","[Research Progress on Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells-Review].","As more and more clinical trials about chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T)  have been carried out successfully, the CAR-T are getting well-known. Thanks for  genetic engineering, CAR-T has the tumor special antigen expressed on the surface. CAR-T therapy is the adoptive immunotheraphy for rapidly advancing tumors. This technology has made a great progress in both blood malignancies and  solid tumor. However, CAR-T also meet many difficulties in the way of development. This review discusses the clinical application, challenges and developing trend of CAR-T."

"632. Cancers (Basel). 2017 Nov 30;9(12). pii: E164. doi: 10.3390/cancers9120164.","Non-Canonical Thinking for Targeting ALK-Fusion Onco-Proteins in Lung Cancer.","Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangements have been identified in lung cancer at 3-7% frequency, thus representing an important subset of genetic lesions that drive oncogenesis in this disease. Despite the availability of multiple FDA-approved small molecule inhibitors targeting ALK fusion proteins, drug resistance to ALK kinase inhibitors is a common problem in clinic. Thus, there is an unmet need to deepen the current understanding of genomic characteristics of ALK rearrangements and to develop novel therapeutic strategies that can overcome ALK inhibitor resistance. In this review, we present the genomic landscape of ALK fusions in the context of co-occurring mutations with other cancer-related genes, pointing to the central role of genetic epistasis (gene-gene interactions) in ALK-driven advanced-stage lung cancer. We discuss the possibility of targeting druggable domains within ALK fusion partners in addition to available strategies inhibiting the ALK kinase domain directly. Finally, we examine the potential of targeting ALK fusion-specific neoantigens in combination with other treatments, a strategy that could open a new avenue for the improved treatment of ALK positive lung cancer patients."

"633. Front Med (Lausanne). 2017 Nov 29;4:211. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2017.00211. eCollection 2017.","Drug Repurposing for the Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease characterized by the accumulation of immature myeloid progenitor cells in the bone marrow, compromising of normal blood cell production and ultimately resulting in bone marrow failure. With a 20% overall survival rate at 5 years and 50% in the 18- to 65-year-old age group, new medicines are needed. It is proposed that development  of repurposed drugs may be a part of the new therapy needed. AML is subdivided into recurrent molecular entities based on molecular genetics increasingly accessible for precision medicine. Novel therapy developments form a basis for novel multimodality therapy and include liposomal daunorubicin/cytarabine, broad  or FLT3-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitors, Bcl-2 family inhibitors, selective inhibitors of nuclear export, metabolic inhibitors, and demethylating agents. The use of non-transplant immunotherapy is in early development in AML with the exceptional re-approval of a toxin-conjugated anti-CD33. However, the full potential of small molecule inhibitors and modalities like immunological checkpoint inhibitors, immunostimulatory small molecules, and CAR-T cell therapy  is unknown. Some novel therapeutics will certainly benefit AML patient subgroups; however, due to high cost, more affordable alternatives are needed globally. Also the heterogeneity of AML will likely demand a broader repertoire of therapeutic molecules. Drug repurposing or repositioning represent a source for potential therapeutics with well-known toxicity profiles and reasonable prices. This implies that biomarkers of response need to accompany the development of antileukemic therapies for sharply defined patient subgroups. We will illustrate  repurposing in AML with selected examples and discuss some experimental and regulatory limitations that may obstruct this development."

"637. Sci Transl Med. 2017 Nov 22;9(417). pii: eaag1209. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aag1209.","TCR engagement negatively affects CD8 but not CD4 CAR T cell expansion and leukemic clearance.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells induce durable remissions in patients with relapsed/refractory B cell malignancies. CARs are synthetic constructs that, when introduced into mature T cells, confer a second, non-major  histocompatibility complex-restricted specificity in addition to the endogenous T cell receptor (TCR). The implications of TCR activation on CAR T cell efficacy has not been well defined. Using an immunocompetent, syngeneic murine model of CD19-targeted CAR T cell therapy for pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia in which the CAR is introduced into T cells with known TCR specificity, we demonstrate loss of CD8 CAR T cell efficacy associated with T cell exhaustion and apoptosis when TCR antigen is present. CD4 CAR T cells demonstrate equivalent cytotoxicity to CD8 CAR T cells and, in contrast, retain in vivo efficacy despite TCR stimulation. Gene expression profiles confirm increased exhaustion and apoptosis of CD8 CAR T cells upon dual receptor stimulation compared to CD4 CAR T cells and indicate inherent differences between CD4 and CD8 CAR T cells in the use of T cell-associated signaling pathways. These results provide insights into  important aspects of CAR T cell immune biology and indicate opportunities to rationally design CAR constructs to optimize clinical efficacy."

"638. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Nov 21;5(1):90. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0294-6.","Prospects for combined use of oncolytic viruses and CAR T-cells.","With the approval of talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) for inoperable locally advanced or metastatic malignant melanoma in the USA and Europe, oncolytic virotherapy is now emerging as a viable therapeutic option for cancer patients. In parallel, following the favourable results of several clinical trials, adoptive cell transfer using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T-cells is anticipated to enter routine clinical practice for the management of chemotherapy-refractory B-cell malignancies. However, CAR T-cell therapy for patients with advanced solid tumours has proved far less successful. This Review  draws upon recent advances in the design of novel oncolytic viruses and CAR T-cells and provides a comprehensive overview of the synergistic potential of combination oncolytic virotherapy with CAR T-cell adoptive cell transfer for the  management of solid tumours, drawing particular attention to the methods by which recombinant oncolytic viruses may augment CAR T-cell trafficking into the tumour  microenvironment, mitigate or reverse local immunosuppression and enhance CAR T-cell effector function and persistence."

"639. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Nov 21;5(1):85. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0293-7.","Single-cell multiplexed cytokine profiling of CD19 CAR-T cells reveals a diverse  landscape of polyfunctional antigen-specific response.","BACKGROUND: It remains challenging to characterize the functional attributes of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cell product targeting CD19 related  to potency and immunotoxicity ex vivo, despite promising in vivo efficacy in patients with B cell malignancies. METHODS: We employed a single-cell, 16-plex cytokine microfluidics device and new analysis techniques to evaluate the functional profile of CD19 CAR-T cells upon antigen-specific stimulation. CAR-T cells were manufactured from human PBMCs transfected with the lentivirus encoding the CD19-BB-z transgene and expanded with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 coated beads. The enriched CAR-T cells were stimulated with anti-CAR or control IgG beads, stained with anti-CD4 RPE and anti-CD8 Alexa  Fluor 647 antibodies, and incubated for 16 h in a single-cell barcode chip (SCBC). Each SCBC contains ~12,000 microchambers, covered with a glass slide that was pre-patterned with a complete copy of a 16-plex antibody array. Protein secretions from single CAR-T cells were captured and subsequently analyzed using  proprietary software and new visualization methods. RESULTS: We demonstrate a new method for single-cell profiling of CD19 CAR-T pre-infusion products prepared from 4 healthy donors. CAR-T single cells exhibited a marked heterogeneity of cytokine secretions and polyfunctional (2+ cytokine) subsets specific to anti-CAR bead stimulation. The breadth of responses includes anti-tumor effector (Granzyme B, IFN-γ, MIP-1α, TNF-α), stimulatory (GM-CSF, IL-2, IL-8), regulatory (IL-4, IL-13, IL-22), and inflammatory (IL-6, IL-17A) functions. Furthermore, we developed two new bioinformatics tools for more effective polyfunctional subset visualization and comparison between donors. CONCLUSIONS: Single-cell, multiplexed, proteomic profiling of CD19 CAR-T product  reveals a diverse landscape of immune effector response of CD19 CAR-T cells to antigen-specific challenge, providing a new platform for capturing CAR-T product  data for correlative analysis. Additionally, such high dimensional data requires  new visualization methods to further define precise polyfunctional response differences in these products. The presented biomarker capture and analysis system provides a more sensitive and comprehensive functional assessment of CAR-T pre-infusion products and may provide insights into the safety and efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy."

"640. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Nov 15;23(22):6982-6992. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-0867. Epub 2017 Sep 14.","Enhanced Cancer Immunotherapy by Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified T Cells Engineered to Secrete Checkpoint Inhibitors.","Purpose: Despite favorable responses of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T-cell therapy in patients with hematologic malignancies, the outcome has been far from satisfactory in the treatment of solid tumors, partially owing to the development of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To overcome this limitation, we engineered CAR T cells secreting checkpoint inhibitors (CPI) targeting PD-1 (CAR.αPD1-T) and evaluated their efficacy in a human lung carcinoma xenograft mouse model.Experimental Design: To evaluate the effector function and expansion capacity of CAR.αPD1-T cells in vitro, we measured the production of IFNγ and T-cell proliferation following antigen-specific stimulation. Furthermore, the antitumor efficacy of CAR.αPD1-T cells, CAR T cells, and CAR T cells combined with anti-PD-1 antibody was determined using a xenograft mouse model. Finally, the underlying mechanism was investigated by analyzing the expansion and functional capacity of TILs.Results: Human anti-PD-1 CPIs secreted by CAR.αPD1-T cells efficiently bound to PD-1 and reversed the inhibitory effect of PD-1/PD-L1 interaction on T-cell function. PD-1 blockade by continuously secreted anti-PD-1 attenuated the inhibitory T-cell signaling and enhanced T-cell expansion and effector function both in vitro and in vivo In the xenograft mouse model, we demonstrated that the  secretion of anti-PD-1 enhanced the antitumor activity of CAR T cells and prolonged overall survival.Conclusions: With constitutive anti-PD-1 secretion, CAR.αPD1-T cells are more functional and expandable, and more efficient at tumor  eradication than parental CAR T cells. Collectively, our study presents an important and novel strategy that enables CAR T cells to achieve better antitumor immunity, especially in the treatment of solid tumors. Clin Cancer Res; 23(22); 6982-92. ©2017 AACR."

"641. BMJ Open. 2017 Nov 12;7(11):e017075. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017075.","Study protocol for THINK: a multinational open-label phase I study to assess the  safety and clinical activity of multiple administrations of NKR-2 in patients with different metastatic tumour types.","INTRODUCTION: NKR-2 are autologous T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising a fusion of the natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) receptor with the CD3ζ signalling domain, which associates with the adaptor molecule DNAX-activating protein of 10 kDa (DAP10) to provide co-stimulatory signal upon ligand binding. NKG2D binds eight different ligands expressed on the cell surface of many tumour cells and which are normally absent  on non-neoplastic cells. In preclinical studies, NKR-2 demonstrated long-term antitumour activity towards a breadth of tumour indications, with maximum efficacy observed after multiple NKR-2 administrations. Importantly, NKR-2 targeted tumour cells and tumour neovasculature and the local tumour immunosuppressive microenvironment and this mechanism of action of NKR-2 was established in the absence of preconditioning. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This open-label phase I study will assess the safety and clinical activity of NKR-2 treatment administered three times, with a 2-week interval between each administration in different tumour types. The study will contain two consecutive segments: a dose escalation phase followed by an expansion phase. The dose escalation study involves two arms, one in solid tumours (five specific indications) and one in haematological tumours (two specific indications) and will include three dose levels in each arm: 3×108, 1×109 and 3×109 NKR-2 per injection. On the identification of the recommended dose in the first segment, based on dose-limiting toxicity occurrences, the study will expand to seven different cohorts examining the seven different tumour types separately. Clinical responses will be determined according to standard Response  Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for solid tumours or international working group response criteria in haematological tumours. ETHICS APPROVAL AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval has been obtained at all sites. Written informed consent will be taken from all participants. The results  of this study will be disseminated through presentation at international scientific conferences and reported in peer-reviewed scientific journals. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03018405, EudraCT 2016-003312-12; Pre-result."

"642. Int J Pharm. 2017 Nov 5;532(2):813-824. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.07.075. Epub  2017 Jul 29.","Promises and limitations of nanoparticles in the era of cell therapy: Example with CD19-targeting chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells.","A number of nanoparticles has been developed by chemists for biomedical applications to meet imaging and targeting needs. In parallel, adoptive T therapy with chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cells (CART cells) has recently held  great promise in B-cell malignancy treatments thanks to the development of anti-CD19 CAR T cells. Indeed, CD19 is a reliable B cell marker and a validated target protein for therapy. In this perspective article, we propose to discuss the advantages, limits and challenges of nanoparticles and CAR T cells, focusing  on CD19 targeting objects: anti-CD19 nanoparticles and anti-CD19 CAR T cells, because those genetically-modified cells are the most widely developed in clinical setting. In the first part, we will introduce B cell malignancies and the CD19 surface marker. Then we will present the positioning of nanomedicine in  the topic of B cell malignancy, before exposing CAR T technology. Finally, we will discuss the complementary approaches between nanoparticles and CAR T cells."

"643. Br J Haematol. 2017 Nov;179(4):598-605. doi: 10.1111/bjh.14923. Epub 2017 Oct 26.","Donor-derived CD19-targeted T cell infusion induces minimal residual disease-negative remission in relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with  no response to donor lymphocyte infusions after haploidentical haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.","Relapse is a common cause of failure in patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic  leukaemia (B-ALL) after haploidentical haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (haplo-HSCT), and non-responders to donor lymphoblastic infusion after HSCT have  a very poor prognosis. Although donor-derived CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR) T cells can potentially cure leukaemia, their effectiveness and safety have not been confirmed in relapsed B-ALL cases after haplo-HSCT. Between January 2015 and January 2017, two and four patients each received one and two infusions of CAR T cells from haplo-HSCT donors. Five (83·33%) achieved minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative remission; one patient  was discharged automatically without evaluation after developing severe thrombotic microangiopathies. Four of five responsive patients relapsed after 2-7 months, and one died of sepsis following MRD-negative remission after a second infusion. None of the other second infusion recipients achieved a second complete remission. Five patients (83·33%) experienced eight courses of grade 1-3 cytokine release syndrome; two were treated with tocilizumab. Two (33·3%) and one patient developed grade 2 and 3 acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD), respectively; the former was controlled with glucocorticoids. Donor-derived CAR T-cell infusion seems be effective and safe for relapsed B-ALL after haplo-HSCT,  although larger clinical studies are needed."

"644. Cancer Discov. 2017 Nov;7(11):1238-1247. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-17-0538. Epub  2017 Aug 22.","Constitutive Signaling from an Engineered IL7 Receptor Promotes Durable Tumor Elimination by Tumor-Redirected T Cells.","Successful adoptive T-cell immunotherapy of solid tumors will require improved expansion and cytotoxicity of tumor-directed T cells within tumors. Providing recombinant or transgenic cytokines may produce the desired benefits but is associated with significant toxicities, constraining clinical use. To circumvent  this limitation, we constructed a constitutively signaling cytokine receptor, C7R, which potently triggers the IL7 signaling axis but is unresponsive to extracellular cytokine. This strategy augments modified T-cell function following antigen exposure, but avoids stimulating bystander lymphocytes. Coexpressing the  C7R with a tumor-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) increased T-cell proliferation, survival, and antitumor activity during repeated exposure to tumor cells, without T-cell dysfunction or autonomous T-cell growth. Furthermore, C7R-coexpressing CAR T cells were active against metastatic neuroblastoma and orthotopic glioblastoma xenograft models even at cell doses that had been ineffective without C7R support. C7R may thus be able to enhance antigen-specific T-cell therapies against cancer.Significance: The constitutively signaling C7R system developed here delivers potent IL7 stimulation to CAR T cells, increasing  their persistence and antitumor activity against multiple preclinical tumor models, supporting its clinical development. Cancer Discov; 7(11); 1238-47. ©2017 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1201."

"645. Cancer Discov. 2017 Nov;7(11):1306-1319. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-17-0263. Epub  2017 Aug 11.","Inducible Activation of MyD88 and CD40 in CAR T Cells Results in Controllable and Potent Antitumor Activity in Preclinical Solid Tumor Models.","Adoptive immunotherapy with T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) has had limited success for solid tumors in early-phase clinical studies. We reasoned that introducing into CAR T cells an inducible costimulatory (iCO) molecule consisting of a chemical inducer of dimerization (CID)-binding domain and the MyD88 and CD40 signaling domains would improve and control CAR T-cell activation. In the presence of CID, T cells expressing HER2-CARζ and a MyD88/CD40-based iCO molecule (HER2ζ.iCO T cells) had superior T-cell proliferation, cytokine production, and ability to sequentially kill targets in vitro relative to HER2ζ.iCO T cells without CID and T cells expressing HER2-CAR.CD28ζ. HER2ζ.iCO T cells with CID also significantly improved survival in vivo in two xenograft models. Repeat injections of CID were able to further increase the antitumor activity of HER2ζ.iCO T cells in vivo Thus, expressing MyD88/CD40-based iCO molecules in CAR T cells has the potential to improve the efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy approaches for solid tumors.Significance: Inducible activation of MyD88 and CD40 in CAR T cells with a small-molecule drug  not only enhances their effector function, resulting in potent antitumor activity in preclinical solid tumors, but also enables their remote control post infusion. Cancer Discov; 7(11); 1306-19. ©2017 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1201."

"647. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Nov;66(11):1425-1436. doi: 10.1007/s00262-017-2034-7. Epub 2017 Jun 28.","The clinical efficacy of first-generation carcinoembryonic antigen (CEACAM5)-specific CAR T cells is limited by poor persistence and transient pre-conditioning-dependent respiratory toxicity.","The primary aim of this clinical trial was to determine the feasibility of delivering first-generation CAR T cell therapy to patients with advanced, CEACAM5+ malignancy. Secondary aims were to assess clinical efficacy, immune effector function and optimal dose of CAR T cells. Three cohorts of patients received increasing doses of CEACAM5+-specific CAR T cells after fludarabine pre-conditioning plus systemic IL2 support post T cell infusion. Patients in cohort 4 received increased intensity pre-conditioning (cyclophosphamide and fludarabine), systemic IL2 support and CAR T cells. No objective clinical responses were observed. CAR T cell engraftment in patients within cohort 4 was significantly higher. However, engraftment was short-lived with a rapid decline of systemic CAR T cells within 14 days. Patients in cohort 4 had transient, acute respiratory toxicity which, in combination with lack of prolonged CAR T cell persistence, resulted in the premature closure of the trial. Elevated levels of systemic IFNγ and IL-6 implied that the CEACAM5-specific T cells had undergone immune activation in vivo but only in patients receiving high-intensity pre-conditioning. Expression of CEACAM5 on lung epithelium may have resulted in this transient toxicity. Raised levels of serum cytokines including IL-6 in these patients implicate cytokine release as one of several potential factors exacerbating the observed respiratory toxicity. Whilst improved CAR designs and T cell production methods could improve the systemic persistence and activity, methods to control CAR T on-target, off-tissue toxicity are required to enable  a clinical impact of this approach in solid malignancies."

"648. Clin Exp Med. 2017 Nov;17(4):431-439. doi: 10.1007/s10238-017-0450-9. Epub 2017 Jan 24.","Current treatment options of T cell-associated immunotherapy in multiple myeloma.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a complex disease and is presently an incurable malignant plasma cell tumor. Although the introduction of proteasome inhibitor and the immunomodulators markedly improved the effect of myeloma therapy, most patients still suffer from relapse even with an initially effective therapy. Accumulating evidence suggests that immunotherapy is a promising option in treating MM. And T cell plays crucial role through inducing sustained immune response in vivo in the immunotherapy of tumors. In this article, we will discuss progress of several T cell-based immunotherapies with insight into how they eradicate myeloma cells and their disadvantages."

"649. Curr Opin Oncol. 2017 Nov;29(6):474-483. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000408.","Stop and go: hematopoietic cell transplantation in the era of chimeric antigen receptor T cells and checkpoint inhibitors.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: For several decades, hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)  has been considered the standard curative therapy for many patients with hematological malignancies. In addition to the cytotoxic effects of the chemotherapy and radiation used in the conditioning regimen, the benefits of HCT  are derived from a reset of the immune system and harnessing the ability of donor T cells to eliminate malignant cells. With the dawn of the era of immunotherapies in the form of checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, the role of HCT has evolved. RECENT FINDINGS: Immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors is increasingly being used for relapsed Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous HCT. Checkpoint inhibitors are also being tested after allogeneic HCT with observable  benefits in treating hematological malignancies, but with a potential risk of increased graft versus host disease and transplant-related mortality. Immunotherapy with Cluster of differentiation 19 CAR T cells are powerful options with aggressive B-cell malignancies both for therapy and as induction leading to  allogeneic HCT. SUMMARY: Although immunotherapies with checkpoint inhibition and CAR T cells are  increasingly being used to treat hematological malignancies, HCT remains a standard of care for most of the diseases with the best chance of cure. Combination of these therapies with HCT has the potential to more effectively treat hematological malignancies."

"650. Drugs Today (Barc). 2017 Nov;53(11):597-608. doi: 10.1358/dot.2017.53.11.2725754.","Tisagenlecleucel, an approved anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy  for the treatment of leukemia.","On August 30, 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Novartis tisagenlecleucel (CTL-019, Kymriah), which is a synthetic bioimmune product of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, for the treatment of relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). This was a milestone in tumor immunology on account of the significant antitumor effect of tisagenlecleucel for the treatment of relapsed/refractory B-ALL patients. Conventional standard therapies for B-ALL have high failure rates, thus developing new therapies is crucial for patients with B-ALL. Results from clinical trials indicate that anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapies could successfully induce high response rates in B-ALL patients. However, related toxicities, such as cytokine release syndrome and CAR T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome, may  be severe or even fatal, and the management of such toxicities is therefore vital. This review will focus on the clinical application of anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy in B-ALL treatment, including design features of CAR constructs, therapeutic use of tisagenlecleucel, CAR T-cell therapy clinical trials and related toxicity, and prospects for cancer immunotherapy."

"653. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2017 Nov;15(11):1429-1437. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2017.7045.","Emerging Role of CAR T Cells in Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma.","Adoptive T-cell therapy with chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-Ts) has produced impressive clinical responses among patients with B-cell malignancies, and several groups have published positive results using anti-CD19 CAR-Ts for the treatment of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Recently, new data from clinical trials have demonstrated the benefits of CAR-T therapy in the non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL) setting. This review describes some of the most recent and promising advances in engineered T-cell therapy, with particular emphasis on the clinical benefits of NHL treatment."

"657. Mol Ther. 2017 Nov 1;25(11):2452-2465. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.07.013. Epub 2017 Jul 27.","Function of Novel Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptors with Human Variable Regions Is Affected by Hinge and Transmembrane Domains.","Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have caused remissions of B cell malignancies, but problems including cytokine-mediated toxicity and short persistence of CAR T cells in vivo might limit the effectiveness of anti-CD19 CAR T cells. Anti-CD19 CARs that have been tested clinically had single-chain variable fragments (scFvs) derived from murine antibodies. We have designed and constructed novel anti-CD19 CARs containing a scFv with fully human variable regions. T cells expressing these CARs specifically recognized CD19+ target cells and carried out functions including degranulation, cytokine release, and proliferation. We compared CARs with CD28 costimulatory moieties along with hinge and transmembrane domains from either the human CD28 molecule or the human CD8α molecule. Compared with T cells expressing CARs with CD28 hinge and transmembrane domains, T cells expressing CARs with CD8α hinge and transmembrane domains produced lower levels of cytokines and exhibited lower levels of activation-induced cell death (AICD). Importantly, CARs with hinge and transmembrane regions from either CD8α or CD28 had similar abilities to eliminate established tumors in mice. In anti-CD19 CARs with CD28 costimulatory moieties, lower levels of inflammatory cytokine production and AICD are potential clinical  advantages of CD8α hinge and transmembrane domains over CD28 hinge and transmembrane domains."

"658. Mol Ther. 2017 Nov 1;25(11):2466-2476. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.07.009. Epub 2017 Jul 20.","Adnectin-Based Design of Chimeric Antigen Receptor for T Cell Engineering.","Although chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cell therapy has achieved encouraging clinical trial results for treating hematological cancers, further optimization can likely expand this therapeutic success to more patients and other cancer types. Most CAR constructs used in clinical trials incorporate single chain variable fragment (scFv) as the extracellular antigen recognition domain. The immunogenicity of nonhuman scFv could cause host rejection against CAR T cells and compromise their persistence and efficacy. The limited availability of scFvs and slow discovery of new monoclonal antibodies also limit  the development of novel CAR constructs. Adnectin, a class of affinity molecules  derived from the tenth type III domain of human fibronectin, can be an alternative to scFv as an antigen-binding moiety in the design of CAR molecules.  We constructed adnectin-based CARs targeting epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) and found that compared to scFv-based CAR, T cells engineered with adnectin-based CARs exhibited equivalent cell-killing activity against target H292 lung cancer cells in vitro and had comparable antitumor efficacy in xenograft tumor-bearing mice in vivo. In addition, with optimal affinity tuning,  adnectin-based CAR showed higher selectivity on target cells with high EGFR expression than on those with low expression. This new design of adnectin CARs can potentially facilitate the development of T cell immunotherapy for cancer and other diseases."

"659. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Nov;19(11):1219-1224.","[Progress in clinical studies of chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cells for treatment of childhood cancer].","Nowadays, the 5-year survival rate of childhood cancer patients can be more than  80%, but some patients with relapse and refractory cancers have shown no good response to traditional strategies. Chimeric antigen receptor engineered T (CAR-T) cell therapy is promising for these patients. CAR-T cells recognize the tumor-associated antigens in a non-major histocompatibility complex-restricted manner, so their anti-tumor ability is enhanced. There are four generations of CAR-T cells now. The complete remission rate of pediatric patients with relapse and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia can be as high as 90% when treated with CD19-targeting CAR-T cells. Furthermore, CAR-T cell therapy can also be used to bridge to transplantation and donor CAR-T cell infusion can be a strategy to prevent relapse after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. As to solid tumors, only patients with neuroblastoma present good response to the GD2-targeting CAR-T cell therapy. The toxic or side effects of CAR-T cell therapy include cytokine release syndrome, off-tumor effect, tumor lysis syndrome, and insertion mutation. Although the CD19-targeting CAR-T cell therapy for childhood  cancer can result in a high remission rate, the relapse rate is high, including CD19+ and CD19- relapse. The mechanisms for relapse merit further investigatio."

"660. Sci Rep. 2017 Oct 30;7(1):14366. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-14749-3.","Micromolar affinity CAR T cells to ICAM-1 achieves rapid tumor elimination while  avoiding systemic toxicity.","Adoptive transfer of high-affinity chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting hematological cancers has yielded impressive clinical results. However, safety concerns regarding target expression on healthy tissue and poor efficacy have hampered application to solid tumors. Here, a panel of affinity-variant CARs were constructed targeting overexpressed ICAM-1, a broad tumor biomarker, using its physiological ligand, LFA-1. Anti-tumor T cell potency in vitro was directly  proportional to CAR affinity and ICAM-1 density. In a solid tumor mouse model allowing simultaneous monitoring of anti-tumor potency and systemic off-tumor toxicity, micromolar affinity CAR T cells demonstrated superior anti-tumor efficacy and safety compared to their nanomolar counterparts. Longitudinal T cell tracking by PET/CT and concurrent cytokine measurement revealed superior expansion and contraction kinetics of micromolar affinity CAR T cells. Therefore, we developed an ICAM-1 specific CAR with broad anti-tumor applicability that utilized a reduced affinity targeting strategy to significantly boost efficacy and safety."

"661. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Oct 27;18(11). pii: E2259. doi: 10.3390/ijms18112259.","Development of A Chimeric Antigen Receptor Targeting C-Type Lectin-Like Molecule-1 for Human Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","The treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with targeted immunotherapy is challenged by the heterogeneity of the disease and a lack of tumor-exclusive antigens. Conventional immunotherapy targets for AML such as CD33 and CD123 have been proposed as targets for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T-cells (CAR-T-cells), a therapy that has been highly successful in the treatment of B-cell leukemia and lymphoma. However, CD33 and CD123 are present on hematopoietic stem cells, and targeting with CAR-T-cells has the potential to elicit long-term myelosuppression. C-type lectin-like molecule-1 (CLL1 or CLEC12A) is a myeloid lineage antigen that is expressed by malignant cells in more than 90% of AML patients. CLL1 is not expressed by healthy Hematopoietic Stem Cells (HSCs), and is therefore a promising target for CAR-T-cell therapy. Here, we describe the development and optimization of an anti-CLL1 CAR-T-cell with potent activity on both AML cell lines and primary patient-derived AML blasts in vitro while sparing healthy HSCs. Furthermore, in a disseminated mouse xenograft model using the CLL1-positive HL60 cell line, these  CAR-T-cells completely eradicated tumor, thus supporting CLL1 as a promising target for CAR-T-cells to treat AML while limiting myelosuppressive toxicity."

"662. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Oct 26;7(1):e1368604. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1368604. eCollection 2017.","mSA2 affinity-enhanced biotin-binding CAR T cells for universal tumor targeting.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-Ts) are promising cancer therapeutics. However, since cancer cells can lose the CAR-targeted antigen and avoid destruction, targeting multiple antigens with multiple CARs has been proposed. We illustrate here a less cumbersome alternative, anti-tag CARs (AT-CARs) that bind  to tags on tumor-targeting antibodies. We have created novel AT-CARs, using the affinity-enhanced monomeric streptavidin 2 (mSA2) biotin-binding domain that when expressed on T cells can target cancer cells coated with biotinylated antibodies. Human T cells expressing mSA2 CARs with CD28-CD3ζ and 4-1BB-CD3ζ signaling domains were activated by plate-immobilized biotin and by tumor cells coated with biotinylated antibodies against the tumor-associated antigens CD19 and CD20. Furthermore, mSA2 CAR T cells were capable of mediating cancer cell lysis and IFNγ production in an antibody dose-dependent manner. The mSA2 CAR is a universal AT-CAR that can be combined with biotinylated tumor-specific antibodies to potentially target many different tumor types."

"663. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Oct 23;10(1):166. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0535-7.","Clinical trials of CAR-T cells in China.","Novel immunotherapeutic agents targeting tumor-site microenvironment are revolutionizing cancer therapy. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells are widely studied for cancer immunotherapy. CD19-specific CAR-T cells, tisagenlecleucel, have been recently approved for clinical application. Ongoing clinical trials are testing CAR designs directed at novel targets involved in hematological and solid malignancies. In addition to trials of single-target CAR-T cells, simultaneous and sequential CAR-T cells are being studied for clinical applications. Multi-target CAR-engineered T cells are also entering clinical trials. T cell receptor-engineered CAR-T and universal CAR-T cells represent new frontiers in CAR-T cell development. In this study, we analyzed the characteristics of CAR constructs and registered clinical trials of CAR-T cells in China and provided a quick glimpse of the landscape of CAR-T studies in China."

"664. Cancers (Basel). 2017 Oct 21;9(10). pii: E139. doi: 10.3390/cancers9100139.","CD47-CAR-T Cells Effectively Kill Target Cancer Cells and Block Pancreatic Tumor  Growth.","CD47 is a glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily that is often overexpressed in different types of hematological and solid cancer tumors and plays important role in blocking phagocytosis, increased tumor survival, metastasis and angiogenesis. In the present report, we designed CAR (chimeric antigen receptor)-T cells that bind CD47 antigen. We used ScFv (single chain variable fragment) from mouse CD47 antibody to generate CD47-CAR-T cells for targeting different cancer cell lines. CD47-CAR-T cells effectively killed ovarian, pancreatic and other cancer cells and produced high level of cytokines that correlated with expression of CD47 antigen. In addition, CD47-CAR-T cells significantly blocked BxPC3 pancreatic xenograft tumor growth after intratumoral  injection into NSG mice. Moreover, we humanized mouse CD47 ScFv and showed that it effectively bound CD47 antigen. The humanized CD47-CAR-T cells also specifically killed ovarian, pancreatic, and cervical cancer cell lines and produced IL-2 that correlated with expression of CD47. Thus, CD47-CAR-T cells can be used as a novel cellular therapeutic agent for treating different types of cancer."

"665. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Oct 16;7(2):e1380764. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1380764. eCollection 2018.","Co-stimulatory signaling determines tumor antigen sensitivity and persistence of  CAR T cells targeting PSCA+ metastatic prostate cancer.","Advancing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered adoptive T cells for the treatment of solid cancers is a major focus in the field of immunotherapy, given  impressive recent clinical responses in hematological malignancies. Prostate cancer may be amenable to T cell-based immunotherapy since several tumor antigens, including prostate stem-cell antigen (PSCA), are widely over-expressed  in metastatic disease. While antigen selectivity of CARs for solid cancers is crucial, it is problematic due to the absence of truly restricted tumor antigen expression and potential safety concerns with on-target off-tumor activity. Here, we show that the intracellular co-stimulatory signaling domain can determine a CARs sensitivity for tumor antigen expression. A 4-1BB intracellular co-stimulatory signaling domain in PSCA-CARs confers improved selectivity for higher tumor antigen density, reduced T cell exhaustion phenotype, and equivalent tumor killing ability compared to PSCA-CARs containing the CD28 co-stimulatory signaling domain. PSCA-CARs exhibit robust in vivo anti-tumor activity in patient-derived bone-metastatic prostate cancer xenograft models, and 4-1BB-containing CARs show superior T cell persistence and control of disease compared with CD28-containing CARs. Our study demonstrates the importance of co-stimulation in defining an optimal CAR T cell, and also highlights the significance of clinically relevant models in developing solid cancer CAR T cell  therapies."

"666. Exp Hematol Oncol. 2017 Oct 11;6:28. doi: 10.1186/s40164-017-0088-z. eCollection  2017.","Incorporation of functional elements enhances the antitumor capacity of CAR T cells.","As chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have displayed an unprecedented efficacy in the treatment of CD19-positive malignances, it is believed that this  cell therapy will be a milestone in the history of mankinds conquering of cancer. However, there are some issues that restrict CAR T cells from reaching their optimal anti-tumor capacity, especially in the treatment of solid tumors. Inhibitory cytokines, immune checkpoint molecules, hypoxia and other adverse factors have been reported to be involved in this process. To obtain better efficacy in the treatment of leukemia and solid tumors, we need to continuously upgrade CAR T cell technology by incorporating novel functional elements into CAR T cells to overcome these restrictions. In this review, we summarize recent advances regarding this topic."

"669. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Oct 8;46(10):714-720. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5807.2017.10.011.","[Specific cytotoxicity of a novel HER2-based chimeric antigen receptor modified T lymphocytes against HER2-positive tumor cells].","Objective: To construct the third generation chimeric antigen receptor based on a novel humanized anti-HER2 H1-2 scFv, and to investigate the specific cytotoxicity of H1-2 CAR modified T lymphocytes(CAR-T) against HER2(+) tumor cells. Method: The expression cassette of the third generation CAR gene and anti-HER2 H1-2 scFv  were constructed and cloned into lentivirus transfer plasmid, and then the third  generation H1-2 CAR was transduced into human T lymphocytes using lentivirus.Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect the expression of cytokines IL2, and LDH release assay was used to detect the cytotoxic effect of the H1-2 CAR-T.Finally, NOD/SCID mice and HER2(+) breast cancer cell line SKBR3 were used to detect the anti-tumor effect of H1-2 CAR-T in vivo. Results: The third generation H1-2 CAR was successfully constructed.H1-2 CAR-T secreted high dose of IL2 after confrontation with HER2(+) breast cancer cells.In vitro, the cytolytic rate of H1-2 CAR-T on high expression HER2(+) tumor cells was significantly higher than that in low expression HER2 or non-expression HER2 tumor cells. At the efficacy to target ratio of 20, the cytolytic rate of H1-2 CAR-T against breast cancer cell SK-BR-3 could reach (90.1±2.8)%, while the cytolytic rate of H1-2 CAR-T against HER2(-) breast cancer cell MDA-MB-231 was only (13.5±4.7)%. In the mouse xenograft tumor model, H1-2 CAR-T cells inhibited  breast cancer growth in vivo.At the end of the experiments, the average tumor weight in the H1-2 CAR-T cell treatment group was (0.7±0.1) g, the non-transfected T cell therapeutic group was (1.2±0.2) g, and the PBS group was (1.2±0.2) g. There was significant difference between the H1-2 CAR-T therapeutic  group and the non-transfected T cell therapeutic group (P<0.05). However, there was no significant difference between the non-transfected T cell therapeutic group and the PBS treatment group (P>0.05). Conclusion: The HER2-sepcific H1-2 CAR-T cells specifically kill HER2 positive cells, and further studies on CAR-T cells for the treatment of HER2(+) cancers are useful."

"672. Mol Ther. 2017 Oct 4;25(10):2372-2382. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.07.002. Epub 2017 Jul 8.","Microfluidic Transduction Harnesses Mass Transport Principles to Enhance Gene Transfer Efficiency.","Ex vivo gene therapy using lentiviral vectors (LVs) is a proven approach to treat and potentially cure many hematologic disorders and malignancies but remains stymied by cumbersome, cost-prohibitive, and scale-limited production processes that cannot meet the demands of current clinical protocols for widespread clinical utilization. However, limitations in LV manufacture coupled with inefficient transduction protocols requiring significant excess amounts of vector currently limit widespread implementation. Herein, we describe a microfluidic, mass transport-based approach that overcomes the diffusion limitations of current transduction platforms to enhance LV gene transfer kinetics and efficiency. This  novel ex vivo LV transduction platform is flexible in design, easy to use, scalable, and compatible with standard cell transduction reagents and LV preparations. Using hematopoietic cell lines, primary human T cells, primary hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) of both murine (Sca-1+) and human (CD34+) origin, microfluidic transduction using clinically processed LVs occurs up to 5-fold faster and requires as little as one-twentieth of LV. As an in vivo  validation of the microfluidic-based transduction technology, HSPC gene therapy was performed in hemophilia A mice using limiting amounts of LV. Compared to the  standard static well-based transduction protocols, only animals transplanted with microfluidic-transduced cells displayed clotting levels restored to normal."

"673. Cell Rep. 2017 Oct 3;21(1):17-26. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.09.015.","Tonic 4-1BB Costimulation in Chimeric Antigen Receptors Impedes T Cell Survival and Is Vector-Dependent.","Antigen-independent tonic signaling by chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) can increase differentiation and exhaustion of T cells, limiting their potency. Incorporating 4-1BB costimulation in CARs may enable T cells to resist this functional exhaustion; however, the potential ramifications of tonic 4-1BB signaling in CAR T cells remain unclear. Here, we found that tonic CAR-derived 4-1BB signaling can produce toxicity in T cells via continuous TRAF2-dependent activation of the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway and augmented FAS-dependent cell death. This mechanism was amplified in a non-self-inactivating gammaretroviral vector through positive feedback on the long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter, further enhancing CAR expression and tonic signaling. Attenuating CAR expression by substitution with a self-inactivating lentiviral vector minimized tonic signaling and improved T cell expansion and anti-tumor function.  These studies illuminate the interaction between tonic CAR signaling and the chosen expression platform and identify inhibitory properties of the 4-1BB costimulatory domain that have direct implications for rational CAR design."

"674. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Oct 3;13(10):2269-2271. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1345833.","The power of combining adoptive cell therapy (ACT) and pathogen-boosted vaccination to treat solid tumors.","Recent advancements in adoptive cell therapy (ACT) are opening up new frontiers for cancer immunotherapy. CAR T cells targeting CD19 have emerged as a remarkable T cell-based therapy for the successful treatment of certain types of leukemia and lymphomas. Despite these clinical successes, as well as significant breakthroughs in T cell engineering, the treatment of solid tumors with ACT remains a relentless challenge. Thus, the current consensus of the field is that  an urgent need exists for the design of innovative approaches that can improve the efficacy of ACT in treating solid cancers while maintaining a high degree of  reliability and safety."

"680. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Oct;31(5):897-912. doi: 10.1016/j.hoc.2017.06.012.","Hematopoietic Stem Cell Approaches to Cancer.","Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are unique in their ability to self-renew and generate all blood lineages for the entire life. HSC modification affects red blood cells, platelets, lymphocytes, and myeloid cells. Chemotherapy can result in myelosuppression, limiting effective chemotherapy administration. For diseases like glioblastoma, high expression of methlylguanine methyltransferase can inactivate alkylating agent chemotherapy. Here we discuss how HSCs can be modified to overcome this resistance, permitting sensitization of tumors to chemotherapy while simultaneously protecting the hematopoietic system. We also discuss how HSCs can be harnessed to produce powerful tumor killing T cells, potentially benefitting and complementing T-cell-based immunotherapies."

"681. Immunotherapy. 2017 Oct;9(13):1061-1066. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0070.","Coccidioidomycosis, immunoglobulin deficiency: safety challenges with CAR T cells therapy for relapsed lymphoma.","Treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma may require allogenic  hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), but treatment of post-transplant relapse disease remains very challenging. Donor lymphocyte infusion and blinatumomab have been used with limited success for the treatment of relapse. Initial data on donor-derived CAR T cells has shown this modality to be safe and  highly effective in various hematological malignancies. We present a case of a patient with highly refractory, transformed follicular lymphoma who failed both autologous and allogenic HSCT. Patient achieved long-lasting complete remission with the use of donor origin CD19 CAR T-cell therapy, without any evidence of graft-versus-host disease flare. Our patient later developed disseminated coccidioidomycosis and persistent hypogammaglobulinemia. Immunotherapy using CD19 CAR T cells can be a highly effective salvage modality, especially in cases  of focal lymphoma relapse. Long-term immunosuppression secondary to B cell lymphopenia, hypogammaglobulinemia, immunoglobulin subclass deficiency, fungal infections and other infectious complications need to be monitored and promptly treated as indicated."

"682. Immunotherapy. 2017 Oct;9(13):1115-1125. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0072.","CAR-T cells and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has a low remission rate after chemotherapy, a high relapse rate and poor long-term survival even when allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is performed. Chimeric antigen receptors redirected T cells (CAR-T cells) can enhance disease remission with a favorable outcome for relapsed/refractory ALL, though some cases quickly relapsed after CAR-T cell treatment. Thus, treatment with CAR-T cells followed by allo-HSCT may be the best way to treat relapsed/refractory ALL. In this review, we first discuss the different types of CAR-T cells. We then discuss the treatment of relapsed/refractory ALL using only CAR-T cells. Finally, we discuss the use of CAR-T cells, followed by allo-HSCT, for the treatment of relapsed/refractory ALL."

"683. Leukemia. 2017 Oct;31(10):2191-2199. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.57. Epub 2017 Feb 16.","Fully human CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors for T-cell therapy.","Impressive results have been achieved by adoptively transferring T-cells expressing CD19-specific CARs with binding domains from murine mAbs to treat B-cell malignancies. T-cell mediated immune responses specific for peptides from  the murine scFv antigen-binding domain of the CAR can develop in patients and result in premature elimination of CAR T-cells increasing the risk of tumor relapse. As fully human scFv might reduce immunogenicity, we generated CD19-specific human scFvs with similar binding characteristics as the murine FMC63-derived scFv using human Ab/DNA libraries. CARs were constructed in various formats from several scFvs and used to transduce primary human T-cells. The resulting CD19-CAR T-cells were specifically activated by CD19-positive tumor cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, and eliminated human lymphoma xenografts in immunodeficient mice. Certain fully human CAR constructs were superior to the FMC63-CAR, which is widely used in clinical trials. Imaging  of cell surface distribution of the human CARs revealed no evidence of clustering without target cell engagement, and tonic signaling was not observed. To further  reduce potential immunogenicity of the CARs, we also modified the fusion sites between different CAR components. The described fully human CARs for a validated  clinical target may reduce immune rejection compared with murine-based CARs."

"687. Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Oct;178:31-47. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2017.03.008. Epub 2017 Mar 16.","Current modalities in cancer immunotherapy: Immunomodulatory antibodies, CARs and vaccines.","Successes of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in curing patients with otherwise lethal cancers have validated immunotherapy as a treatment for cancer and have inspired excitement for its broader potential. Most promising is the ability of each approach to eliminate bulky and advanced-stage cancers and to achieve durable cures. Despite  this success, to date only a subset of cancer patients and a limited number of cancer types respond to these therapies. A major goal now is to expand the types  of cancer and number of patients who can be successfully treated. To this end a multitude of immunotherapies are being tested clinically in new combinations, and many new immunomodulatory antibodies and CARs are in development. A third major immunotherapeutic approach with renewed interest is cancer vaccines. While over 20years of therapeutic cancer vaccine trials have met with limited success, these studies have laid the groundwork for the use of therapeutic vaccines in combination with other immunotherapies or alone as prophylactic cancer vaccines.  Prophylactic vaccines are now poised to revolutionize cancer prevention as they have done for the prevention of infectious diseases. In this review we examine three major cancer immunotherapy modalities: immunomodulatory antibodies, CAR T cell therapy and vaccines. For each we describe the current state of the art and  outline major challenges and research directions forward."

"688. Virus Genes. 2017 Oct;53(5):723-732. doi: 10.1007/s11262-017-1495-2. Epub 2017 Jul 25.","Reconstructing the immune system with lentiviral vectors.","Lentiviral vectors (LVs) developed in the past two decades for research and pre-clinical purposes have entered clinical trials with remarkable safety and efficacy performances. Development and clinical testing of LVs for improvement of human immunity showed major advantages in comparison to other viral vector systems. Robust and persisted transduction efficiency of blood cells with LVs, resulted into a broad range of target cells for immune therapeutic approaches: from hematopoietic stem cells and precursor cells for correction of immune deficiencies, up to effector lymphoid and myeloid cells. T cells engineered for expression of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) or epitope-specific transgenic T  cell receptors (TCRs) are in several cancer immune therapy clinical trials worldwide. Development of engineered dendritic cells is primed for clinical trials for cancer and chronic infections. Technological adaptations for ex vivo cell manipulations are here discussed and presented based on properties and uses  of the target cell. For future development of off-shelf immune therapies, direct  in vivo administration of lentiviral vectors is warranted and intended. Approaches for lentiviral in vivo targeting to maximize immune therapeutic success are discussed."

"689. Front Immunol. 2017 Sep 29;8:1212. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.01212. eCollection 2017.","Targeting Multiple Tumors Using T-Cells Engineered to Express a Natural Cytotoxicity Receptor 2-Based Chimeric Receptor.","Recent developments in cancer treatment are demonstrating the increasing and powerful potential of immunotherapeutic strategies. In this regard, the adoptive  transfer of tumor-specific T-lymphocytes approaches can lead to tumor regression  in cancer patients. More recently, the use of T-cells genetically engineered to express cancer-specific receptors such as the anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) continues to show promise for the treatment of hematological malignancies.  Still, there is a crucial need to develop efficient CAR-T cell approaches for the treatment of solid tumors. It has been shown that other lymphocytes such as natural killer (NK) cells can demonstrate potent antitumor function-nonetheless,  their use in immunotherapy is rather limited due to difficulties in expanding these cells to therapeutically relevant numbers and to suppression by endogenous  inhibitory mechanisms. Cancer recognition by NK cells is partly mediated by molecules termed natural cytotoxicity receptors (NCRs). In the present study, we  hypothesize that it is possible to endow T-cells with an NK recognition pattern,  providing them with a mean to recognize tumor cells, in a non-MHC restricted way. To test this, we genetically modified human T-cells with different chimeric receptors based on the human NCR2 molecule and then assessed their antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. Our results show that expression in primary lymphocytes of an NCR2-derived CAR, termed s4428z, confers T-cells with the ability to specifically recognize heterogeneous tumors and to mediate tumor cytotoxicity in a mouse model. This study demonstrates the benefit of combining tumor recognition capability of NK cells with T cell effectiveness to improve cancer immunotherapy."

"690. Cell Rep. 2017 Sep 26;20(13):3025-3033. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.09.002.","Augmentation of Antitumor Immunity by Human and Mouse CAR T Cells Secreting IL-18.","The effects of transgenically encoded human and mouse IL-18 on T cell proliferation and its application in boosting chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are presented. Robust enhancement of proliferation of IL-18-secreting human T cells occurred in a xenograft model, and this was dependent on TCR and IL-18R signaling. IL-18 augmented IFN-γ secretion and proliferation of T cells activated by the endogenous TCR. TCR-deficient, human IL-18-expressing CD19 CAR T cells exhibited enhanced proliferation and antitumor activity in the xenograft  model. Antigen-propelled activation of cytokine helper ensemble (APACHE) CAR T cells displayed inducible expression of IL-18 and enhanced antitumor immunity.  In an intact mouse tumor model, CD19-IL-18 CAR T cells induced deeper B cell aplasia, significantly enhanced CAR T cell proliferation, and effectively augmented antitumor effects in mice with B16F10 melanoma. These findings point to a strategy to develop universal CAR T cells for patients with solid tumors."

"691. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Sep 25;20(9):966-971.","[Targeted therapy combined with immunotherapy in gastrointestinal stromal tumor:  a new era of hope and challenges].","New immunotherapy represented by immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy and chimeric antigen receptor T-Cell immunotherapy (CAR-T) has already become hot trend in the treatment of malignant tumors. In gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), with notable tumor-infiltrating immune cells existing in GIST tissues and immunological effects reported in imatinib mesylate (IM) treatment, the clinicians and researchers started to realize the possibilities of immunotherapy  in GIST. Recent studies reported that PD-1/PD-L1 or CTLA-4 blockade may enhance the T-cell activity and anti-tumor effect of targeted therapy, which can be applied in advanced GIST, and anti-KIT CAR T-cells indicated a new immunotherapeutic targeted strategy for GIST patients with TKI resistance. All the immunotherapies in GIST mentioned above are frontline researches but their efficacies still need more evidence from clinical trials to verify."

"692. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Sep 20;10(1):155. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0522-z.","Recent advances of bispecific antibodies in solid tumors.","Cancer immunotherapy is the most exciting advancement in cancer therapy. Similar  to immune checkpoint blockade and chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T), bispecific antibody (BsAb) is attracting more and more attention as a novel strategy of antitumor immunotherapy. BsAb not only offers an effective linkage between therapeutics (e.g., immune effector cells, radionuclides) and targets (e.g., tumor cells) but also simultaneously blocks two different oncogenic mediators. In recent decades, a variety of BsAb formats have been generated. According to the structure of Fc domain, BsAb can be classified into two types: IgG-like format and Fc-free format. Among these formats, bispecific T cell engagers (BiTEs) and triomabs are commonly investigated. BsAb has achieved an exciting breakthrough in hematological malignancies and promising outcome in solid tumor as showed in various clinical trials. In this review, we focus on the preclinical experiments and clinical studies of epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) related BsAbs in solid tumors, as well as discuss the challenges and corresponding approaches in clinical application."

"693. Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 18;8(65):108584-108603. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.21017. eCollection 2017 Dec 12.","Development of novel target modules for retargeting of UniCAR T cells to GD2 positive tumor cells.","As the expression of a tumor associated antigen (TAA) is commonly not restricted  to tumor cells, adoptively transferred T cells modified to express a conventional chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) might not only destroy the tumor cells but also attack target-positive healthy tissues. Furthermore, CAR T cells in patients with large tumor bulks will unpredictably proliferate and put the patients at high risk of adverse side effects including cytokine storms and tumor lysis syndrome.  To overcome these problems, we previously established a modular CAR technology termed UniCAR: UniCAR T cells can repeatedly be turned on and off via dosing of a target module (TM). TMs are bispecific molecules which cross-link UniCAR T cells  with target cells. After elimination of the respective TM, UniCAR T cells automatically turn off. Here we describe novel TMs against the disialoganglioside GD2 which is overexpressed in neuroectodermal but also many other tumors. In the  presence of GD2-specific TMs, we see a highly efficient target-specific and -dependent activation of UniCAR T cells, secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and tumor cell lysis both in vitro and experimental mice. According to PET-imaging, anti-GD2 TM enrich at the tumor site and are rapidly eliminated thus fulfilling all prerequisites of a UniCAR TM."

"694. Toxins (Basel). 2017 Sep 15;9(9). pii: E282. doi: 10.3390/toxins9090282.","The Heat-Stable Enterotoxin Receptor, Guanylyl Cyclase C, as a Pharmacological Target in Colorectal Cancer Immunotherapy: A Bench-to-Bedside Current Report.","Cancer immunotherapy is becoming a routine treatment modality in the oncology clinic, in spite of the fact that it is a relatively nascent field. The challenge in developing effective immunotherapeutics is the identification of target molecules that promote anti-tumor efficacy across the patient population while sparing healthy tissue from damaging autoimmunity. The intestinally restricted receptor guanylyl cyclase C (GUCY2C) is a target that has been investigated for the treatment of colorectal cancer and numerous animal, and clinical studies have demonstrated both efficacy and safety. Here, we describe the current state of GUCY2C-directed cancer immunotherapy and the future directions of this work."

"695. Cancer Lett. 2017 Sep 10;403:224-230. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.06.024. Epub 2017 Jun 23.","Targeting EGFRvIII for glioblastoma multiforme.","Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most progressive primary brain tumor. Targeting a novel and highly specific tumor antigen is one of the strategies to overcome tumors. EGFR variant III (EGFRvIII) is present in 25%-33% of all patients with GBM and is exclusively expressed on tumor tissue cells. Currently,  there are various approaches to target EGFRvIII, including CAR T-cell therapy, therapeutic vaccines, antibodies, and Bi-specific T Cell Engager. In this review, we focus on the preclinical and clinical findings of targeting EGFRvIII for GBM."

"696. J Clin Oncol. 2017 Sep 10;35(26):3010-3020. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2017.72.8519. Epub 2017 Jul 17.","Durable Molecular Remissions in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Treated With CD19-Specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified T Cells After Failure of Ibrutinib.","Purpose We evaluated the safety and feasibility of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cell therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who had previously received ibrutinib. Methods Twenty-four patients with CLL received lymphodepleting chemotherapy and anti-CD19 CAR-T cells at one of three dose levels (2 × 105, 2 × 106, or 2 × 107 CAR-T cells/kg). Nineteen patients experienced disease progression while receiving ibrutinib, three were ibrutinib intolerant, and two did not experience progression while receiving ibrutinib. Six patients were venetoclax refractory, and 23 had a complex karyotype and/or 17p deletion. Results Four weeks after CAR-T cell infusion, the overall response rate (complete response [CR] and/or partial response [PR]) by International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL)  criteria was 71% (17 of 24). Twenty patients (83%) developed cytokine release syndrome, and eight (33%) developed neurotoxicity, which was reversible in all but one patient with a fatal outcome. Twenty of 24 patients received cyclophosphamide and fludarabine lymphodepletion and CD19 CAR-T cells at or below the maximum tolerated dose (≤ 2 × 106 CAR-T cells/kg). In 19 of these patients who were restaged, the overall response rate by IWCLL imaging criteria 4 weeks after infusion was 74% (CR, 4/19, 21%; PR, 10/19, 53%), and 15/17 patients (88%)  with marrow disease before CAR-T cells had no disease by flow cytometry after CAR-T cells. Twelve of these patients underwent deep IGH sequencing, and seven (58%) had no malignant IGH sequences detected in marrow. Absence of the malignant IGH clone in marrow of patients with CLL who responded by IWCLL criteria was associated with 100% progression-free survival and overall survival (median 6.6 months follow-up) after CAR-T cell immunotherapy. The progression-free survival was similar in patients with lymph node PR or CR by IWCLL criteria. Conclusion CD19 CAR-T cells are highly effective in high-risk patients with CLL after they experience treatment failure with ibrutinib therapy."

"702. Mol Ther. 2017 Sep 6;25(9):2189-2201. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.06.008. Epub 2017 Jul 1.","Tumor Antigen and Receptor Densities Regulate Efficacy of a Chimeric Antigen Receptor Targeting Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase.","We explored the utility of targeting anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), a cell surface receptor overexpressed on pediatric solid tumors, using chimeric antigen  receptor (CAR)-based immunotherapy. T cells expressing a CAR incorporating the single-chain variable fragment sequence of the ALK48 mAb linked to a 4-1BB-CD3ζ signaling domain lysed ALK-expressing tumor lines and produced interferon-gamma upon antigen stimulation but had limited anti-tumor efficacy in two xenograft models of human neuroblastoma. Further exploration demonstrated that cytokine production was highly dependent upon ALK target density and that target density of ALK on neuroblastoma cell lines was insufficient for maximal activation of CAR T cells. In addition, ALK CAR T cells demonstrated rapid and complete antigen-induced loss of receptor from the T cell surface via internalization. Using a model that simultaneously modulated antigen density and CAR expression, we demonstrated that CAR functionality is regulated by target antigen and CAR density and that low expression of either contributes to limited anti-tumor efficacy of the ALK CAR. These data suggest that stoichiometric relationships between CAR receptors and target antigens may significantly impact the anti-tumor efficacy of CAR T cells and that manipulation of these parameters could allow precise tuning of CAR T cell activity."

"703. Mol Ther. 2017 Sep 6;25(9):2214-2224. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.05.012. Epub 2017 Jun 9.","CAR T Cells Administered in Combination with Lymphodepletion and PD-1 Inhibition  to Patients with Neuroblastoma.","Targeting disialoganglioside (GD2) on neuroblastoma (NB) with T cells expressing  a first-generation chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) was safe, but the cells had poor expansion and long-term persistence. We developed a third-generation GD2-CAR (GD2-CAR3) and hypothesized that GD2-CAR3 T cells (CARTs) would be safe and effective. This phase 1 study enrolled relapsed or refractory NB patients in three cohorts. Cohort 1 received CART alone, cohort 2 received CARTs plus cyclophosphamide and fludarabine (Cy/Flu), and cohort 3 was treated with CARTs, Cy/Flu, and a programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitor. Eleven patients were treated with CARTs. The infusions were safe, and no dose-limiting toxicities occurred. CARTs were detectable in cohort 1, but the lymphodepletion induced by Cy/Flu increased circulating levels of the homeostatic cytokine interleukin (IL)-15 (p = 0.003) and increased CART expansion by up to 3 logs (p = 0.03). PD-1 inhibition did not further enhance expansion or persistence. Antitumor responses at 6 weeks  were modest. We observed a striking expansion of CD45/CD33/CD11b/CD163+ myeloid cells (change from baseline, p = 0.0126) in all patients, which may have contributed to the modest early antitumor responses; the effect of these cells merits further study. Thus, CARTs are safe, and Cy/Flu can further increase their expansion."

"704. Sci Rep. 2017 Sep 5;7(1):10541. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-10940-8.","Armored CAR T cells enhance antitumor efficacy and overcome the tumor microenvironment.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has shown limited efficacy for the management of solid tumor malignancies. In ovarian cancer, this is in part due to an immunosuppressive cytokine and cellular tumor microenvironment which suppresses adoptively transferred T cells. We engineered an armored CAR T cell capable of constitutive secretion of IL-12, and delineate the mechanisms via which these CAR T cells overcome a hostile tumor microenvironment. In this report, we demonstrate enhanced proliferation, decreased apoptosis and increased  cytotoxicity in the presence of immunosuppressive ascites. In vivo, we show enhanced expansion and CAR T cell antitumor efficacy, culminating in improvement  in survival in a syngeneic model of ovarian peritoneal carcinomatosis. Armored CAR T cells mediated depletion of tumor associated macrophages and resisted endogenous PD-L1-induced inhibition. These findings highlight the role of the inhibitory microenvironment and how CAR T cells can be further engineered to maintain efficacy."

"705. Am J Hematol. 2017 Sep;92(9):892-901. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24794. Epub 2017 Jun 5.","Chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells that target chemokine receptor CCR4 as a therapeutic modality for T-cell malignancies.","With the emerging success of treating CD19 expressing B cell malignancies with ex vivo modified, autologous T cells that express CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptors (CAR), there is intense interest in expanding this evolving technology  to develop effective modalities to treat other malignancies including solid tumors. Exploiting this approach to develop a therapeutic modality for T cell malignancies for which the available regimens are neither curative, nor confer long term survival we generated a lentivirus-based CAR gene transfer system to target the chemokine receptor CCR4 that is over-expressed in a spectrum of T cell malignancies as well as in CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ T regulatory cells that accumulate in the tumor microenvironment constituting a barrier against anti-tumor immunity. Ex vivo modified, donor-derived T cells that expressed CCR4 directed CAR displayed antigen-dependent potent cytotoxicity against patient-derived cell lines representing ATL, CTCL, ALCL and a subset of HDL. Furthermore, these CAR T  cells also eradicated leukemia in a mouse xenograft model of ATL illustrating the potential utility of this modality in the treatment of a wide spectrum of T cell  malignancies."

"706. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2017 Sep;30(3):275-281. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2017.07.009. Epub 2017 Aug 3.","The what, when and how of CAR T cell therapy for ALL.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cells that have been engineered to target CD19  have shown great promise in patients with relapsed and refractory B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia with remission rates of 70-90%. Some remissions have successfully bridged patients to a curable allogeneic stem cell transplant, some  responses have been durable without further treatment, and some patients have achieved durable remissions for relapsed ALL after allogeneic stem cell transplant. Cytokine release syndrome, correlating with the in vivo activation and expansion of T cells, and neurologic toxicity are the most significant side effects and approaches to better understand and manage these events are the subject of ongoing clinical trials. The decision to intervene with CARTs requires an individualized approach taking into consideration patient, disease and therapy related factors."

"707. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2017 Sep;30(3):201-211. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2017.07.001. Epub 2017 Jul 5.","How should we treat older adults with Ph+ adult ALL and what novel approaches are being investigated?","Treatment of older patients with Philadelphia-chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia presents unique challenges. Advanced age, comorbidities, high treatment-related death rates with traditional chemotherapy, and relapse combine to yield poor survival. Reduced-intensity induction with BCR-ABL1 targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and corticosteroids yields CR rates 96-100% with no induction mortality but relapse is nearly certain without effective consolidation. Few clinical trials provide guidance on optimal consolidation for older Ph+ ALL. With second-generation TKIs, lower intensity chemotherapy after induction gives similar outcomes to intensive consolidation although long-term survival is still poor. Consolidation with allogeneic or autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation may improve survival for fit older  patients. Novel targeted therapies like blinatumomab, inotuzumab ozogamicin, and  CD19-targeted CAR T-cells hold promise to improve survival with reduced toxicity. Better understanding these approaches will require increased referral to specialized centers, expansion of clinical trials, and improved enrollment of older ALL patients on trials."

"710. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Sep;66(9):1113-1121. doi: 10.1007/s00262-017-2007-x. Epub 2017 May 11.","Current status of chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cell-based and immune checkpoint blockade-based cancer immunotherapies.","Adoptive cell therapies with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) engineered T cells (CAR-T) and immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI)-based cancer immunotherapies have  lately shown remarkable success in certain tumor types. CAR-T cell-based therapies targeting CD19 can now induce durable remissions as well as prolong disease-free survival of patients with CD19 positive treatment refractory B cell  malignancies and ICI-based therapies with humanized monoclonal antibodies against the T cell inhibitory receptors CTLA-4 and PD-1 as well as against the PD-1 ligand, PD-L1, can now achieve durable remissions as well as prolongation of life of a sizeable fraction of patients with melanoma and Hodgkins lymphoma and non-small cell cancers. Most importantly, these immuno-therapeutic treatment modalities have raised the possibility of achieving long-term containment as well as cures for certain types of cancer. While this represents major advances in cancer immunotherapy, both modalities come with considerable toxicities, including fatalities. Although more work will be needed to bring CAR-T cell-based therapies to the bedside for most major cancers and a good deal more will be needed to make ICI-alone or in combination with other treatment modalities-work more consistently and across most major cancers, these two treatment modalities stand out as superb examples of successful translation of bench research to the bedside as well as represent real progress in the field of cancer immunotherapy."

"711. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Sep;66(9):1243-1247. doi: 10.1007/s00262-017-2009-8. Epub 2017 May 8.","Cancer immunotherapy without frontiers: 2nd Annual Immuno-Oncology Meeting of the Centro de Investigación de Cancer en Sonora (CICS), Ciudad Obregón, Sonora México, Dec 2-4, 2016.","This meeting in immuno-oncology brought together clinicians and scientists from United States, Canada, and México with the goal of breaking down international walls and establishing new collaborations."

"712. Cancers (Basel). 2017 Sep 1;9(9). pii: E115. doi: 10.3390/cancers9090115.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cell Therapy for Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma (MPM).","Cancer immunotherapy has now become a recognized approach to treating cancers. In addition to checkpoint blockade, adoptive T cell transfer (ACT) using chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has shown impressive clinical outcomes in leukemias and  is now being explored in solid tumors. CARs are engineered receptors, stably or transiently transduced into T cells, that aim to enhance T cell effector function by recognizing and binding to a specific tumor-associated antigen. In this review, we provide a summary of CAR T cell preclinical studies and clinical trials for malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM), a rare, locally invasive pleural cancer with poor prognosis. We list other attractive potential targets for CAR T  cell therapy for MPM, and discuss augmentation strategies of CAR T cell therapy with other forms of immunotherapy in this disease."

"713. Curr Res Transl Med. 2017 Sep;65(3):93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.retram.2017.08.003.","Chimeric antigen-receptor T-cell therapy for hematological malignancies and solid tumors: Clinical data to date, current limitations and perspectives.","Progress in our understanding of basic immunology along with the advent of bioengineering technologies have made possible the production of human T-cells expressing Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CAR T-cells). These CAR T-cells are designed to target specific antigens presented by cancer cells. Once CARs are bound to these antigens, CAR T-cells get activated and can initiate potent anti-tumor effects. We will here overview the bioengineering advances which made  possible the clinical application of CAR T-cell therapy. We will review the data  to date regarding anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia,  non-Hodgkin lymphomas, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Besides CD19, CAR T-cells directed against the B-cell maturation antigen have also shown encouraging results to treat patients with refractory multiple myeloma. The more  limited body of clinical research in the field of solid tumors will also be reviewed. Moreover, we will elaborate on the main toxicities of limitations of CAR T-cell therapy, namely cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity. While enjoying an undeniable hype, CAR T-cell therapy bears significant limitations. We will conclude by exposing the possible approaches to make CAR T-cells safer and more efficient beyond the CD19 target."

"714. Cytotherapy. 2017 Sep;19(9):1015-1024. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.06.001. Epub 2017 Jul 25.","Building blocks for institutional preparation of CTL019 delivery.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is an investigational immunocellular therapy that reprograms a patients cytotoxic T cells to engage and eliminate malignant cells. CAR T-cell therapies targeting the CD19 antigen have demonstrated high efficacy in clinical trials for patients with B-cell malignancies and may potentially be available on a broader scale in the future. CAR T-cell therapy begins with the collection of a sufficient number of T cells from a patients peripheral blood through leukapheresis. Several factors must be  considered when patients undergo leukapheresis for CAR T-cell therapy, including  age and prior therapies. The leukapheresis material is shipped to a manufacturing facility, followed by return of the CAR T cells to the treatment center. Careful  coordination of a multidisciplinary team composed of physicians, nurses, pharmacists and other hospital personnel is critical for the proper care of the patient before, during and after CAR T-cell therapy. CAR T-cell therapy has been  associated with adverse events (AEs) such as cytokine release syndrome, which requires rapid attention by the emergency department, intensive care unit and hospital pharmacy. In this review, we discuss several aspects of institutional preparation for leukapheresis, CAR T-cell infusion and AE management based on our experience with clinical trials of the CD19 CAR T-cell therapy CTL019."

"715. EMBO Mol Med. 2017 Sep;9(9):1183-1197. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201607485.","Clinical development of CAR T cells-challenges and opportunities in translating innovative treatment concepts.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, together with checkpoint inhibition, has been celebrated as a breakthrough technology due to the substantial benefit observed in clinical trials with patients suffering from relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. In this review, we provide a comprehensive overview of the clinical trials performed so far worldwide and analyze parameters such as targeted antigen and indication, CAR molecular design, CAR T cell manufacturing, anti-tumor activities, and related toxicities. More than 200 CAR T cell clinical trials have been initiated so far, most of which aim to treat lymphoma or leukemia patients using CD19-specific CARs. An increasing number of studies address solid tumors as well. Notably, not all clinical trials  conducted so far have shown promising results. Indeed, in a few patients CAR T cell therapy resulted in severe adverse events with fatal outcome. Of note, less  than 10% of the ongoing CAR T cell clinical trials are performed in Europe. Taking lead from our analysis, we discuss the problems and general hurdles preventing efficient clinical development of CAR T cells as well as opportunities, with a special focus on the European stage."

"716. Expert Rev Hematol. 2017 Sep;10(9):783-799. doi: 10.1080/17474086.2017.1350165. Epub 2017 Jul 10.","Emerging role of immunotherapy in precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","INTRODUCTION: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is an aggressive type of leukemia that carries poor prognosis in adults especially in the setting of high  risk cytogenetics and relapsed/refractory (R/R) disease. Advancements in immunotherapy have led to the development of several monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells that are capable of targeting certain surface antigens on leukemic cells, resulting in their destruction. Areas covered: This article reviews the mechanism of action, outcomes of various trials, and adverse effects of MoAbs and CAR-T cells used in the treatment of precursor B-cell ALL. Expert commentary: Some of the immunotherapeutic agents that have been approved for the treatment of R/R precursor B-cell ALL have shown  superior efficacy and safety profile compared to chemotherapy in advanced disease. Several trials are now being conducted to evaluate the role of certain MoAbs in combination with chemotherapy in the treatment of B-cell ALL. Additionally, their use in the frontline setting with more favorable host characteristics may also result in superior outcomes compared to the current standard of care."

"717. Hum Gene Ther. 2017 Sep;28(9):726-736. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.021. Epub 2017 Jun 22.","Designed Ankyrin Repeat Proteins as Her2 Targeting Domains in Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) engineering is a branch of cancer immunotherapy that equips immune cells to target tumor antigens expressed on the cell surface using antibody-derived single-chain variable fragments (scFvs). However, other antibody mimetics, such as designed ankyrin repeat proteins (DARPins), can also serve as antigen-binding domains in CARs. This study shows that CAR-engineered T  (CAR-T) cells utilizing Her2-targeting DARPins G3 and 929 can target human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2)-overexpressing cancer cells as effectively as CAR-T cells with the scFv 4D5 in vitro, and G3 CAR-T cells can slow or eliminate tumor growth in vivo as effectively as 4D5 CAR-T cells. Some DARPins may offer an attractive alternative to scFv usage in CARs, as they are smaller, thermodynamically stable, poorly immunogenic, and can be generated with  different binding properties from DARPin libraries."

"718. Immunotherapy. 2017 Sep;9(10):851-861. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0039.","Application of chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells in ovarian cancer therapy.","Due to the critical role of T cells in the immune surveillance of ovarian cancer, adoptive T-cell therapies are receiving increased attention as an immunotherapeutic approach for ovarian cancer. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), constructed by incorporating the single-chain Fv fragment to a T-cell signaling domain such as CD3 ζ or Fc receptor γ chain, endow T cell with nonmajor histocompatibility complex-restricted specificity. Dual specificity, trans-signaling CARs and affinity-tuned single-chain Fv fragment have broadened the applicability of CAR-engineered T-cell therapy and may be considered preferential to T cell receptor T-cell therapy in clinical care. As new insights  into the CAR-engineered T cells have emerged over the last decade, we review the  development of CAR T-cell therapy and discuss the progress and safety concerns regarding its translation from basic research into clinical care of ovarian cancer."

"719. J Clin Invest. 2017 Sep 1;127(9):3462-3471. doi: 10.1172/JCI94306. Epub 2017 Aug  14.","Clinical and immunological responses after CD30-specific chimeric antigen receptor-redirected lymphocytes.","BACKGROUND: Targeting CD30 with monoclonal antibodies in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) has had profound clinical success. However, adverse events, mainly mediated by the toxin component of the conjugated antibodies, cause treatment discontinuation in many patients. Targeting CD30 with T cells expressing a CD30-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) may reduce the side effects and augment antitumor activity. METHODS: We conducted a phase I dose escalation study in which 9 patients with relapsed/refractory HL or ALCL were infused with autologous T cells that were gene-modified with a retroviral vector to express the CD30-specific CAR (CD30.CAR-Ts) encoding the CD28 costimulatory endodomain. Three dose levels, from 0.2 × 108 to 2 × 108 CD30.CAR-Ts/m2, were infused without a conditioning regimen. All other therapy for malignancy was discontinued at least 4 weeks before CD30.CAR-T infusion. Seven patients had previously experienced disease progression while being treated with brentuximab. RESULTS: No toxicities attributable to CD30.CAR-Ts were observed. Of 7 patients with relapsed HL, 1 entered complete response (CR) lasting more than 2.5 years after the second infusion of CD30.CAR-Ts, 1 remained in continued CR for almost 2 years, and 3 had transient stable disease. Of 2 patients with ALCL, 1 had a CR that persisted 9 months after the fourth infusion of CD30.CAR-Ts. CD30.CAR-T expansion in peripheral blood peaked 1 week after infusion, and CD30.CAR-Ts remained detectable for over 6 weeks. Although CD30 may also be expressed by normal activated T cells, no patients developed impaired virus-specific immunity. CONCLUSION: CD30.CAR-Ts are safe and can lead to clinical responses in patients with HL and ALCL, indicating that further assessment of this therapy is warranted. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01316146. FUNDING: National Cancer Institute (3P50CA126752, R01CA131027 and P30CA125123), National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (R01HL114564), and Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLSTR 6227-08)."

"722. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.07.003. Epub 2017 Jul 15.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for glioblastoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown great promise in the treatment of hematological disease, and its utility for treatment of solid tumors is beginning to unfold. Glioblastoma continues to portend a grim prognosis and immunotherapeutic approaches are being explored as a potential treatment strategy. Identification of appropriate glioma-associated antigens, barriers to cell delivery, and presence of an immunosuppressive microenvironment are factors  that make CAR T-cell therapy for glioblastoma particularly challenging. However,  insights gained from preclinical studies and ongoing clinical trials indicate that CAR T-cell therapy will continue to evolve and likely become integrated with current therapeutic strategies for malignant glioma."

"723. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:59-82. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.06.011. Epub 2017 Jun 29.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cells for B-cell malignancies.","The adoptive transfer of T-lymphocytes modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-Ts) has produced impressive clinical responses among patients with B-cell malignancies. This has led to a rapid expansion in the number of clinical  trials over the past several years. Although CD19-specific CAR-Ts are the most extensively evaluated, CAR-Ts specific for other B-cell-associated targets have also shown promise. However, despite this success, toxicities associated with CAR-T administration remain a significant concern. There continues to be substantial heterogeneity among CAR-T products, and differences in both CAR designs and CAR-T production strategies can substantially affect clinical outcomes. Ongoing clinical studies will further elucidate these differences and many other innovative approaches are being evaluated at the preclinical level. In this review, we will discuss the background and rationale for the use of CAR-Ts,  provide an overview of advances in the field, and examine the application of CAR-Ts to the treatment of B-cell malignancies, including a summary of clinical trials published to date."

"724. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:32-43. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.06.003. Epub 2017 Jun 9.","Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered natural killer and natural killer T cells for cancer immunotherapy.","Natural killer (NK) cells of the innate immune system and natural killer T (NKT)  cells, which have roles in both the innate and adaptive responses, are unique lymphocyte subsets that have similarities in their functions and phenotypes. Both cell types can rapidly respond to the presence of tumor cells and participate in  immune surveillance and antitumor immune responses. This has incited interest in  the development of novel cancer therapeutics based on NK and NKT cell manipulation. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), generated through the fusion of  an antigen-binding region of a monoclonal antibody or other ligand to intracellular signaling domains, can enhance lymphocyte targeting and activation  toward diverse malignancies. Most of the CAR studies have focused on their expression in T cells; however, the functional heterogeneity of CAR T cells limits their therapeutic potential and is associated with toxicity. CAR-modified  NK and NKT cells are becoming more prevalent because they provide a method to direct these cells more specifically to target cancer cells, with less risk of adverse effects. This review will outline current NK and NKT cell CAR constructs  and how they compare to conventional CAR T cells, and discuss future modifications that can be explored to advance adoptive cell transfer of NK and NKT cells."

"725. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:22-31. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.05.009. Epub 2017 Jun 10.","Development of novel avenues to overcome challenges facing CAR T cells.","There has been dramatic success in treating patients with adoptive transfer of autologous T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor redirecting them to the antigen CD19. Despite this success, the application of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy in solid malignancies has encountered many challenges that need to be overcome if similar success across other cancers  is to become a reality. These challenges can be classified into 6 categories: the heterogeneity of tumor cell clones and tumor-associated antigen expression; poor  T-cell trafficking into the tumor site; poor T-cell survival and persistence; the presence of suppressive immune cells; the secretion of suppressive soluble factors in the tumor microenvironment; and the upregulation of T-cell intrinsic inhibitory pathways. We outline specific representative hurdles in each of these  categories and summarize the progress made in understanding them and developing strategies to overcome them."

"726. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:11-21. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.05.006. Epub 2017 Jun 1.","Development of novel antigen receptors for CAR T-cell therapy directed toward solid malignancies.","Development of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have led to remarkable successes in the treatment of B-cell malignancies with anti-CD19 CAR. Here we discuss the development of novel antigen receptors for use in solid malignancies  with respect to target antigens, receptor design, and T cell manipulations."

"727. Transl Res. 2017 Sep;187:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.04.004. Epub 2017 Apr 26.","CAR T-cell therapy for lung cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma.","Immunotherapy is a promising field that harnesses the power of the immune system  as a therapeutic agent for cancer treatment. Beneficial outcomes shown in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) with relatively higher tumor-infiltrating T cells, combined with impressive responses obtained in a cohort of patients with NSCLC following checkpoint blockade therapy, lays a strong foundation to promote effector immune  responses in these patients. One such approach being investigated is administration of tumor antigen-targeted T cells with transduction of a chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR). CARs are synthetic receptors that enhance T-cell antitumor effector function and have gained momentum to investigate in solid tumors based on recent successes of clinical trials treating patients with B-cell hematologic malignancies. This review summarizes target antigens for CAR T-cell therapy that are being investigated in preclinical studies and clinical trials for both NSCLC and MPM patients. We discuss the rationale for combination immunotherapies for NSCLC and MPM patients. Additionally, we have highlighted the challenges and strategies for overcoming the obstacles facing translation of CAR  T-cell therapy to solid tumors."

"728. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Aug 29;10(1):151. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0519-7.","Chimeric antigen receptors for adoptive T cell therapy in acute myeloid leukemia.","Currently, conventional therapies for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have high failure and relapse rates. Thus, developing new strategies is crucial for improving the treatment of AML. With the clinical success of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies against B-lineage malignancies, many studies have attempted to translate the success of CAR T cell therapy to other malignancies, including AML. This review summarizes the current advances in CAR T cell therapy against AML, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, and  discusses the potential AML-associated surface markers that could be used for further CAR technology. Finally, we describe strategies that might address the current issues of employing CAR T cell therapy in AML."

"730. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 24;12(8):e0183390. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0183390. eCollection 2017.","Bispecific T cell engager (BiTE®) antibody constructs can mediate bystander tumor cell killing.","For targets that are homogenously expressed, such as CD19 on cells of the B lymphocyte lineage, immunotherapies can be highly effective. Targeting CD19 with  blinatumomab, a CD19/CD3 bispecific antibody construct (BiTE®), or with chimeric  antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T) has shown great promise for treating certain CD19-positive hematological malignancies. In contrast, solid tumors with heterogeneous expression of the tumor-associated antigen (TAA) may present a challenge for targeted therapies. To prevent escape of TAA-negative cancer cells, immunotherapies with a local bystander effect would be beneficial. As a model to  investigate BiTE®-mediated bystander killing in the solid tumor setting, we used  epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) as a target. We measured lysis of EGFR-negative populations in vitro and in vivo when co-cultured with EGFR-positive cells, human T cells and an EGFR/CD3 BiTE® antibody construct. Bystander EGFR-negative cells were efficiently lysed by BiTE®-activated T cells only when proximal to EGFR-positive cells. Our mechanistic analysis suggests that cytokines released by BiTE®-activated T-cells induced upregulation of ICAM-1 and  FAS on EGFR-negative bystander cells, contributing to T cell-induced bystander cell lysis."

"731. Chin J Cancer. 2017 Aug 20;36(1):67. doi: 10.1186/s40880-017-0233-4.","Awakening immunity against cancer: a 2017 primer for clinicians.","Cancer immunotherapy has finally joined the pillars of cancer treatment-surgery,  radiation, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and targeted therapy-in improving cancer patient lives. In the last 5 years, the development of immune checkpoint inhibitor and T cell therapy, particularly chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, has been remarkable for the speed, scale, and number of drug approvals.  Still, these treatments may also bring unusual adverse effects and clinical outcomes including unprecedented long-term survival. Interrogating the tumor microenvironment and identifying better biomarkers hold the key to improving cancer immunotherapies. CAR T-cell therapy has dramatic effect on leukemias and lymphomas with significant cure rates, but has yet to show comparable effect on solid tumors. Cutting-edge technology will improve both processing and clinical effect of such therapies. Asia has the largest, most rapidly aging population and the largest number of cancer patients in the world. Research and development and  clinical trial conduct of cancer immunotherapy in Asia remain nascent, but should be a crucial priority."

"732. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Aug 18;10(1):150. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0516-x.","Novel immunotherapies for adult patients with B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","The past decade witnessed the rapid development of adult B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treatment. Beyond the development of chemotherapy regimens, immunotherapy is starting a new era with unprecedented complete remission (CR) rate. Targeting B-lineage-specific surface markers such as CD19, CD20, CD22, or CD52, immunotherapy has been demonstrating promising clinical results. Among the immunotherapeutic methods, naked monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), antibody-drug conjugate (ADC), bispecific T cell engager (BiTE), and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are the main types. In this review, we will examine the emerging preclinical and clinical development on (1) anti-CD20 naked  mAbs rituximab, ofatumumab, and obinutuzumab; (2) anti-CD19 ADCs SAR3419 and SGN-CD19A and anti-CD19 BiTE blinatumomab; (3) anti-CD22 naked mAb epratuzumab and anti-CD22 ADC inotuzumab ozogamicin; (4) anti-CD52 naked mAb alemtuzumab; and (5) anti-CD19 CAR T cells. We will discuss their efficacy, adverse effects, as well as future development."

"733. BMC Med. 2017 Aug 16;15(1):156. doi: 10.1186/s12916-017-0920-7.","Ibrutinib continues to influence the therapeutic landscape of chronic lymphocytic leukemia: new data presented at ASCO 2017.","According to data presented at the 2017 American Society of Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting, with more than 4 years of follow-up, ibrutinib continues to provide clinical utility in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, treatment of CLL patients with high-risk cytogenetics features remains a challenge and the outcome of these hard-to-treat patients is dismal. At the 2017  ASCO Meeting, results of the GENUINE phase III trial showed that, by adding ublituximab, a glycoengineered, anti-CD20 type 1 monoclonal antibody, to ibrutinib, the overall response rate (ORR), complete response rate (CRR), and minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity may be improved in high-risk CLL patients. A further way to improve the results obtained with Brutons tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors is the parallel use of ibrutinib with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. Through this investigational approach, the rate of MRD negativity was shown to be higher, implying potential eradication of CLL. These novel data indicate that ibrutinib continues to have a positive effect in CLL."

"734. Front Med (Lausanne). 2017 Aug 16;4:134. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2017.00134. eCollection 2017.","More Haste, Less Speed: Could Public-Private Partnerships Advance Cellular Immunotherapies?","Cellular immunotherapies promise to transform cancer care. However, they must overcome serious challenges, including: (1) the need to identify and characterize novel cancer antigens to expand the range of therapeutic targets; (2) the need to develop strategies to minimize serious adverse events, such as cytokine release syndrome and treatment-related toxicities; and (3) the need to develop efficient  production/manufacturing processes to reduce costs. Here, we discuss whether these challenges might better be addressed through forms of public-private research collaborations, including public-private partnerships (PPPs), or whether these challenges are best addressed by way of standard market transactions. We reviewed 14 public-private relationships and 25 underlying agreements for the clinical development of cancer cellular immunotherapies in the US. Most were based on bilateral research agreements and pure market transactions in the form of service contracts and technology licenses, which is representative of the commercialization focus of the field. We make the strategic case that multiparty  PPPs may better advance cancer antigen discovery and characterization and improved cell processing/manufacturing and related activities. In the rush toward the competitive end of the translational continuum for cancer cellular immunotherapy and the attendant focus on commercialization, many gaps have appeared in our understanding of cellular biology, immunology, and bioengineering. We conclude that the model of bilateral agreements between leading research institutions and the private sector may be inadequate to efficiently harness the interdisciplinary skills and knowledge of the public and  private sectors to bring these promising therapies to the clinic for the benefit  of cancer patients."

"735. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Aug 14;6(12):e1363137. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1363137. eCollection 2017.","CAR T-cell immunotherapy of MET-expressing malignant mesothelioma.","Mesothelioma is an incurable cancer for which effective therapies are required. Aberrant MET expression is prevalent in mesothelioma, although targeting using small molecule-based therapeutics has proven disappointing. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) couple the HLA-independent binding of a cell surface target to the delivery of a tailored T-cell activating signal. Here, we evaluated the anti-tumor activity of MET re-targeted CAR T-cells against mesothelioma. Using immunohistochemistry, MET was detected in 67% of malignant pleural mesotheliomas, most frequently of epithelioid or biphasic subtype. The presence of MET did not influence patient survival. Candidate MET-specific CARs were engineered in which  a CD28+CD3ζ endodomain was fused to one of 3 peptides derived from the N and K1 domains of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), which represents the minimum MET binding element present in this growth factor. Using an NIH3T3-based artificial antigen-presenting cell system, we found that all 3 candidate CARs demonstrated high specificity for MET. By contrast, these CARs did not mediate T-cell activation upon engagement of other HGF binding partners, namely CD44v6 or heparan sulfate proteoglycans, including Syndecan-1. NK1-targeted CARs demonstrated broadly similar in vitro potency, indicated by destruction of MET-expressing mesothelioma cell lines, accompanied by cytokine release. In vivo  anti-tumor activity was demonstrated following intraperitoneal delivery to mice with an established mesothelioma xenograft. Progressive tumor regression occurred without weight loss or other clinical indicators of toxicity. These data confirm  the frequent expression of MET in malignant pleural mesothelioma and demonstrate  that this can be targeted effectively and safely using a CAR T-cell immunotherapeutic strategy."

"738. Oncotarget. 2017 Aug 4;8(38):64607-64621. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.19929. eCollection 2017 Sep 8.","CAR-T cell therapy in ovarian cancer: from the bench to the bedside.","Ovarian cancer (OC) is the most lethal gynecological malignancy and is responsible for most gynecological cancer deaths. Apart from conventional surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells as a representative of adoptive cellular immunotherapy have received considerable attention in the research field of cancer treatment. CARs combine antigen specificity and T-cell-activating properties in a single fusion molecule. Several preclinical experiments and clinical trials have confirmed that adoptive cell immunotherapy using typical CAR-engineered T cells for OC is a promising treatment approach with striking clinical efficacy; moreover, the emerging CAR-Ts targeting various antigens also exert great potential. However, such therapies have side effects and toxicities, such as cytokine-associated and  on-target, off-tumor toxicities. In this review, we systematically detail and highlight the present knowledge of CAR-Ts including the constructions, vectors, clinical applications, development challenges, and solutions of CAR-T-cell therapy for OC. We hope to provide new insight into OC treatment for the future."

"739. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Aug 3;13(8):1786-1788. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1314874. Epub 2017 May 11.","A new therapeutic potential for cancers: One CAR with 2 different engines!","Tumor cells escape from immune recognition by several mechanisms such as down-regulating of MHC class I molecules, losing of tumor antigens, etc. The purpose of cancer immunotherapy is to robust or reconstruct the capacity of the immune system to recognize and kill tumor cells by overwhelming the mechanisms by which tumors escape the immune response. One of the novel immunotherapeutic strategies were used to potentiate NK- and T cell functions is chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). CARs are composed of an antigen-binding domain of a molecule such as an antibody (that binds to a tumor associated antigens expressed on the surface of tumor cells) and an intracellular T cell activation domain. The CARs provide the recognition of target antigen in a MHC-independent manner. CAR-armed  T cells may be unable to kill their targets in the absence of co-stimulators like NK cells. On the other hand, CAR-armed NK cells may also be unable to destroy their targets without receiving help signals from Th cells. Thus, if CAR-armed NK cells use together with CAR-armed T cells, NK cells will be aggregated to the tumor site. Thus, not only CAR T cells will obtain the necessary cytokines/costimulators from NK cells, but also other tumor specific T cells will be primed by recognition of tumor specific antigen (TSA) associated with MHC class I. These new specific primed T cells probably combat against tumor cells which have lost their TAAs that CAR-T cells are redirected to them."

"740. Mol Ther. 2017 Aug 2;25(8):1769-1781. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.06.012. Epub 2017 Jun 28.","Engineering Natural Killer Cells for Cancer Immunotherapy.","The past several years have seen tremendous advances in the engineering of immune effector cells as therapy for cancer. While chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have been used extensively to redirect the specificity of autologous T cells against hematological malignancies with striking clinical results, studies of CAR-modified natural killer (NK) cells have been largely preclinical. In this review, we focus on recent advances in NK cell engineering, particularly on preclinical evidence suggesting that NK cells may be as effective as T cells in recognizing and killing targets after genetic modification. We will discuss strategies to introduce CARs into both primary NK cells and NK cell lines in an effort to provide antigen specificity, the challenges of manufacturing engineered NK cells, and evidence supporting the effectiveness of this approach from preclinical and early-phase clinical studies using CAR-engineered NK cells. CAR-NK cells hold great promise as a novel cellular immunotherapy against refractory malignancies. Notably, NK cells can provide an off-the-shelf product, eliminating the need for a personalized and patient-specific product that plagues current CAR-T cell therapies. The ability to more potently direct NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity against refractory tumors through the expression of CAR is likely to contribute to the recent paradigm shift in cancer treatment."

"741. Mol Ther. 2017 Aug 2;25(8):1946-1958. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.04.024. Epub 2017 May 13.","A Rational Strategy for Reducing On-Target Off-Tumor Effects of CD38-Chimeric Antigen Receptors by Affinity Optimization.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) can effectively redirect cytotoxic T cells toward highly expressed surface antigens on tumor cells. The low expression of several tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) on normal tissues, however, hinders their safe targeting by CAR T cells due to on-target/off-tumor effects. Using the multiple myeloma (MM)-associated CD38 antigen as a model system, here, we present a rational approach for effective and tumor-selective targeting of such TAAs. Using light-chain exchange technology, we combined the heavy chains of two high-affinity CD38 antibodies with 176 germline light chains and generated ∼124 new antibodies with 10- to >1,000-fold lower affinities to CD38. After categorizing them into three distinct affinity classes, we incorporated the single-chain variable fragments of eight antibodies from each class into new CARs. T cells carrying these CD38-CARs were extensively evaluated for their on-tumor/off-tumor cytotoxicity as well as CD38-dependent proliferation and cytokine production. We identified CD38-CAR T cells of ∼1,000- fold reduced affinity, which optimally proliferated, produced Th1-like cytokines, and effectively lysed CD382+ MM cells, but spared CD38+ healthy hematopoietic cells in vitro and in vivo. Thus, this systematic approach is highly suitable for the generation of optimal CARs for effective and selective targeting of TAAs."

"742. Mol Ther. 2017 Aug 2;25(8):1933-1945. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.04.017. Epub 2017 May 4.","Balance of Anti-CD123 Chimeric Antigen Receptor Binding Affinity and Density for  the Targeting of Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T lymphocytes are a promising immunotherapeutic approach and object of pre-clinical evaluation for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We developed a CAR against CD123, overexpressed on AML blasts and leukemic stem cells. However, potential recognition of low CD123-positive healthy tissues, through the on-target, off-tumor effect, limits safe clinical employment of CAR-redirected T cells. Therefore, we evaluated the effect of context-dependent variables capable of modulating CAR T cell functional profiles, such as CAR binding affinity, CAR expression, and target antigen density. Computational structural biology tools allowed for the design of rational mutations in the anti-CD123 CAR antigen binding domain that altered CAR expression and CAR binding affinity without affecting the overall CAR design. We defined both lytic and activation antigen thresholds, with early cytotoxic activity unaffected by either CAR expression or  CAR affinity tuning but later effector functions impaired by low CAR expression.  Moreover, the anti-CD123 CAR safety profile was confirmed by lowering CAR binding affinity, corroborating CD123 is a good therapeutic target antigen. Overall, full dissection of these variables offers suitable anti-CD123 CAR design optimization  for the treatment of AML."

"744. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2017 Aug;17(8):471-478. doi: 10.1016/j.clml.2017.06.014. Epub 2017 Jun 17.","Immuno-oncologic Approaches: CAR-T Cells and Checkpoint Inhibitors.","Advances in understanding myeloma biology have shown that disease progression is  not only the consequence of intrinsic tumor changes but also of interactions between the tumor and the microenvironment in which the cancer grows. The immune  system is an important component of the tumor microenvironment in myeloma, and acting on the immune system is an appealing new treatment strategy. There are 2 ways to act toward immune cells and boost antitumor immunity: (1) to increase antitumor activity (acting on T and NK cytotoxic cells), and (2) to reduce immunosuppression (acting on myeloid-derived stem cells and T regulatory cells).  Checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive cell therapy (ACT) are 2 of the main actors, together with monoclonal antibodies and immunomodulatory agents, in the immune-oncologic approach. The aim of checkpoint inhibitors is to release the brakes that block the action of the immune system against the tumor. Anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) and PD-1-Ligand, as well as anti-CTLA4 and KIR are currently under evaluation, as single agents or in combination, with the best results achieved so far with combination of anti-PD-1 and immunomodulatory agents. The aim of ACT is to create an immune effector specific against the tumor. Preliminary results on chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, first against CD19, and more recently against B-cell maturation antigen, have shown to  induce durable responses in heavily pretreated patients. This review focuses on the most recent clinical results available on the use of checkpoint inhibitors and CAR-T cells in myeloma, in the context of the new immune-oncologic approach."

"745. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2017 Aug;12(4):344-357. doi: 10.1007/s11899-017-0397-7.","Novel Immunotherapies for Multiple Myeloma.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The treatment landscape of multiple myeloma is rapidly changing; however, despite improvement in patients survival, it still remains a  largely incurable disease. One hallmark of myeloma is substantial immune dysfunction leading to an increased infection rate and the inability of immune surveillance to detect neoplastic cells. Here, we critically analyze clinical approaches to harness the immune system to overcome this defect with a focus on antibody based and adoptive cellular therapies. RECENT FINDINGS: Clinical trials exploring these immunotherapies to treat myeloma are now well underway and show promising results. In relapsed myeloma, monoclonal antibodies directed against plasma cell antigens and immune checkpoints have already shown substantial efficacy. In parallel, trials of adoptive cellular therapy have exciting promise in myeloma, having induced dramatic responses in a  handful of early study participants. Taken together, immunotherapeutic approaches hold enormous potential in the field of multiple myeloma and in the near future can be combined with or even replace the current standard of care."

"746. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2017 Aug;12(4):370-379. doi: 10.1007/s11899-017-0394-x.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor Therapy in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Clinical Practice.","Over half of patients diagnosed with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) develop relapsed or refractory disease. Traditional chemotherapy salvage is inadequate, and new therapies are needed. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell  therapy is a novel, immunologic approach where T cells are genetically engineered to express a CAR conferring specificity against a target cell surface antigen, most commonly the pan-B-cell marker CD19. After infusion, CAR T cells expand and  persist, allowing ongoing tumor surveillance. Several anti-CD19 CAR T cell constructs have induced high response rates in heavily pre-treated populations, although durability of response varied. Severe toxicity (cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity) is the primary constraint to broad implementation of  CAR T cell therapy. Here, we review the experience of CAR T cell therapy for ALL  and ongoing efforts to modify existing technology to improve efficacy and decrease toxicity. As an anti-CD19 CAR T cell construct may be FDA approved soon, we focus on issues relevant to practicing clinicians."

"747. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2017 Aug;88(4):305-307. doi: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2017.05.016. Epub 2017 Jun 3.","False-positive HIV nucleic acid amplification testing during CAR T-cell therapy.","Advancements in immunotherapy have opened a new era in oncology, to include genetic modification of human T-cells to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that enables targeted tumor recognition (Kochenderfer et al., 2015; Lee et  al., 2015; Maus and Levine 2016; Rosenberg et al., 2008). Herein, we report a false-positive HIV testing in a patient who had undergone CAR T-cell therapy created with a lentiviral vector."

"748. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2017 Aug;18(11):1081-1099. doi: 10.1080/14656566.2017.1340938. Epub 2017 Jun 26.","Novel therapy for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","INTRODUCTION: During recent decades, the prognosis of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has improved dramatically, nowadays, reaching a cure rate of almost 90%. These results are due to a better management and combination  of old therapies, refined risk-group stratification and emergence of minimal residual disease (MRD) combined with treatments intensification for high-risk subgroups. However, the subgroup of patients with refractory/relapsed ALL still presents a dismal prognosis indicating necessity for innovative therapeutic approaches. Areas covered: We performed an exhaustive review of current first-line therapies for childhood ALL in the worldwide main consortia, summarized the major advances for front-line and relapse treatment and highlighted recent and promising innovative therapies with an overview of the most promising ongoing clinical trials. Expert opinion: Two major avenues marked  the beginning of 21st century. First, is the introduction of tyrosine-kinase inhibitor coupled to chemotherapy for treatment of Philadelphia positive ALL opening new treatment possibilities for the recently identified subgroup of Ph-like ALL. Second, is the breakthrough of immunotherapy, notably CAR T-cell and specific antibody-based therapy, with remarkable success observed in initial studies. This review gives an insight on current knowledge in these innovative therapeutic directions, summarizes currently ongoing clinical trials and addresses challenges these approaches are faced with."

"749. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2017 Aug;18(11):1061-1079. doi: 10.1080/14656566.2017.1340942. Epub 2017 Jul 5.","Current and developing synthetic pharmacotherapy for treating relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.","INTRODUCTION: The introduction of novel agents has significantly improved multiple myeloma (MM) patient outcome during the last two decades. MM received the most drug approvals for any one malignancy during this time period, both in the United States as well as in Europe. Areas covered: Proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory drugs, and monoclonal antibodies are prototype drug classes, which target both specific MM cell functions, as well as the tumor supportive bone marrow microenvironment, and represent current cornerstones of MM therapy. Importantly, the unprecedented extent and frequency of durable responses, in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM), in particular, is predominantly based on the combinatorial use of these agents with conventional chemotherapeutics or representatives of other drug classes. This article will summarize past landmark discoveries in MM that led to the dramatic progress of todays clinical practice. Moreover, developing strategies will be discussed that are likely to yet improve patient outcome even further. Expert opinion: Despite significant therapeutic advancements, MM remains an incurable disease. With several novel agents in the preclinical and early clinical pipeline, among those  novel CD38 and BCMA mAbs, immune checkpoint inhibitors, as well as ricolinostat,  selinexor, venetoclax, CAR-T cells, and vaccines, further advances in MM patient  outcome are expected in the near future."

"751. Future Oncol. 2017 Aug;13(18):1593-1605. doi: 10.2217/fon-2017-0102. Epub 2017 Jun 14.","Exploiting natural killer group 2D receptors for CAR T-cell therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are genetically engineered proteins that combine an extracellular antigen-specific recognition domain with one or several  intracellular T-cell signaling domains. When expressed in T cells, these CARs specifically trigger T-cell activation upon antigen recognition. While the clinical proof of principle of CAR T-cell therapy has been established in hematological cancers, CAR T cells are only at the early stages of being explored to tackle solid cancers. This special report discusses the concept of exploiting  natural killer cell receptors as an approach that could broaden the specificity of CAR T cells and potentially enhance the efficacy of this therapy against solid tumors. New data demonstrating feasibility of this approach in humans and supporting the ongoing clinical trial are also presented."

"752. Immunotherapy. 2017 Aug;9(9):753-765. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0022. Epub 2017 Aug 3.","NK-92 cell, another ideal carrier for chimeric antigen receptor.","The remarkable clinical outcomes of the treatment for B-cell malignancies through the application of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells have made adoptive immunotherapy with genetically modified immune effector cells a hotspot  in the field of antitumor. However, numerous toxicities of CAR-T cells have been  identified. Thus, some studies have resorted to another cytotoxic cell, NK-92 cell, to reach for better efficacy with minimal toxicity. Preclinical studies have confirmed the safety and feasibility of the genetically modified NK-92 cells with highly specific cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, it is expected that NK-92 cell becomes another ideal carrier for CAR for its unique advantages over primary NK cells, parental NK-92 cells and autologous T cells."

"753. Immunotherapy. 2017 Aug;9(9):723-733. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0045. Epub 2017 Aug 3.","Atypical CAR T cells: NKG2D and Erb-B as examples of natural receptor/ligands to target recalcitrant solid tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has recently been recommended for  approval for certain B-cell malignancies bringing the approach closer to mainstream cancer treatment. This rapid rise to prominence has been driven by impressive clinical results and the means to successfully commercialize the approach now being actively pursued. The current success of CAR T cells in B-cell malignancies relies upon the absolute lineage specificity of the CD19 antigen. CARs can also be targeted using non-antibody approaches, including the use of receptors and ligands to provide target specificity that have different specificities and binding kinetics. The specific examples of NKG2D and Erb-B are  used that provide different characteristics and target profiles for CAR T-cell therapy of cancer."

"754. Immunotherapy. 2017 Aug;9(9):767-780. doi: 10.2217/imt-2017-0026. Epub 2017 Aug 3.","Overcoming barriers of car T-cell therapy in patients with mesothelin-expressing  cancers.","One obstacle to the application of immunotherapy to solid malignancies is to overcome the existing tolerance to self-antigens. Vaccine strategies aimed at harnessing endogenous antitumor T cells are limited by the T-cell receptor repertoire, which can be detected within the thymus as central tolerance or rendered nonfunctional by post-thymic mechanisms of peripheral tolerance. Adoptive immunotherapy can overcome these obstacles, since therapeutically effective T cells can be engineered to recognize tumors. Continued advancements in novel treatments, including immunotherapy, in solid malignancies are imperative. While mesothelin is an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy given its normal expression is limited to mesothelial cells, the breakthrough for chimeric antigen receptor T-cell treatment against this antigen is still forthcoming."

"756. J Target Ther Cancer. 2017 Aug;6(4):22-25.","Engineering Chimeric Antigen Receptor T cells to Treat Glioblastoma.","Immunotherapy has emerged as a promising strategy for glioblastoma (GBM), a disease that remains universally fatal despite currently available standard-of-care. Adoptive T cell therapy has been shown to produce potent antitumor immunity while obviating the need for traditional antigen presentation  and primary immune responses. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are specialized molecules that can be expressed on the surface of T cells allowing for redirected cytotoxicity against tumor antigens of interest. To date, the application of CAR  T cells for GBM has been relatively limited, in large part due to a dearth of well-described tumor specific antigens that are both homogenously and frequently  expressed. A mutated version of the epidermal growth factor receptor, EGFRvIII, is a constitutively activated tyrosine kinase that is expressed on the surface of GBM and other common neoplasms, but completely absent from all normal tissues. We have recently generated CAR T cells directed against EGFRvIII and reported results from a Phase I clinical trial investigating this platform in patients with EGFRvIII-expressing GBM. Our study showed that despite conventional notions  of central nervous system immune-privilege, EGFRvIII CAR T cells trafficked to  intracerebral tumors, leading to successful targeting and eradication of this antigen in the brain. Here, we review our experience with EGFRvIII CAR T cells and highlight important considerations for the clinical translation of this therapy in patients with GBM."

"757. Leukemia. 2017 Aug;31(8):1788-1797. doi: 10.1038/leu.2016.373. Epub 2016 Dec 7.","Optimized T-cell receptor-mimic chimeric antigen receptor T cells directed toward the intracellular Wilms Tumor 1 antigen.","CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are clinically effective in a limited set of leukemia patients. However, CAR T-cell therapy thus far has been largely restricted to targeting extracellular tumor-associated antigens (TAA). Herein, we report a T-cell receptor-mimic (TCRm) CAR, termed WT1-28z, that is reactive to a peptide portion of the intracellular onco-protein Wilms Tumor 1(WT1), as it is expressed on the surface of the tumor cell in the context of HLA-A*02:01. T cells modified to express WT1-28z specifically targeted and lysed  HLA-A*02:01+ WT1+ tumors and enhanced survival of mice engrafted with HLA-A*02:01+, WT1+ leukemia or ovarian tumors. This in vivo functional validation of TCRm CAR T cells provides the proof-of-concept necessary to expand the range of TAA that can be effectively targeted for immunotherapy to include attractive intracellular targets, and may hold great potential to expand on the success of CAR T-cell therapy."

"758. Protein Cell. 2017 Aug;8(8):573-589. doi: 10.1007/s13238-017-0411-9. Epub 2017 Apr 22.","Increasing the safety and efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is a promising cancer treatment that has recently been undergoing rapid development. However, there are still some major challenges, including precise tumor targeting to avoid off-target or on-target/off-tumor toxicity, adequate T cell infiltration and migration to solid tumors and T cell proliferation and persistence across the physical and biochemical barriers of solid tumors. In this review, we focus on the primary challenges and strategies to design safe and effective CAR T cells, including using novel cutting-edge technologies for CAR and vector designs to increase both the safety and efficacy, further T cell modification to overcome the tumor-associated immune suppression, and using gene editing technologies to generate universal CAR T cells. All these efforts promote the development and evolution of CAR T cell therapy and move toward our ultimate goal-curing cancer with high safety, high efficacy, and low cost."

"759. Semin Cancer Biol. 2017 Aug;45:23-35. doi: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2017.02.010. Epub  2017 Feb 28.","The cancer-immunity cycle as rational design for synthetic cancer drugs: Novel DC vaccines and CAR T-cells.","Cell therapy is an advanced form of cancer immunotherapy that has had remarkable  clinical progress in the past decade in the search for cure of cancer. Most success has been achieved for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells where CAR T-cells targeting CD19 show very high complete response rates for patients with refractory acute B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and are close to approval for this indication. CD19 CAR T-cells are also effective against B-cell  chronic lymphoblastic leukemia (CLL) and B-cell lymphomas. Although encouraging,  CAR T-cells have not yet proven clinically effective for solid tumors. This is mainly due to the lack of specific and homogenously expressed targets to direct the T-cells against and a hostile immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in solid tumors. Cancer vaccines based on dendritic cells (DC) are also making progress although clinical efficacy is still lacking. The likelihood of success is however increasing now when individual tumors can be sequences and patient-specific neoepitopes identified. Neoepitopes and/or neoantigens can then  be included in patient-based DC vaccines. This review discusses recent advancements of DC vaccines and CAR T-cells with emphasis on the cancer-immunity  cycle, and current efforts to design novel cell therapies."

"760. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Jul 25;10(1):142. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0505-0.","Recent developments in immunotherapy of acute myeloid leukemia.","The advent of new immunotherapeutic agents in clinical practice has revolutionized cancer treatment in the past decade, both in oncology and hematology. The transfer of the immunotherapeutic concepts to the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is hampered by various characteristics of the disease, including non-leukemia-restricted target antigen expression profile, low endogenous immune responses, and intrinsic resistance mechanisms of the leukemic  blasts against immune responses. However, considerable progress has been made in  this field in the past few years.Within this manuscript, we review the recent developments and the current status of the five currently most prominent immunotherapeutic concepts: (1) antibody-drug conjugates, (2) T cell-recruiting antibody constructs, (3) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, (4) checkpoint  inhibitors, and (5) dendritic cell vaccination. We focus on the clinical data that has been published so far, both for newly diagnosed and refractory/relapsed  AML, but omitting immunotherapeutic concepts in conjunction with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Besides, we have included important clinical trials that are currently running or have recently been completed but are still lacking  full publication of their results.While each of the concepts has its particular merits and inherent problems, the field of immunotherapy of AML seems to have taken some significant steps forward. Results of currently running trials will reveal the direction of further development including approaches combining two or more of these concepts."

"761. Blood. 2017 Jul 20;130(3):285-296. doi: 10.1182/blood-2017-01-761320. Epub 2017 May 24.","CD7-edited T cells expressing a CD7-specific CAR for the therapy of T-cell malignancies.","Extending the success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to T-cell malignancies is problematic because most target antigens are shared between normal and malignant cells, leading to CAR T-cell fratricide. CD7 is a transmembrane protein highly expressed in acute T-cell leukemia (T-ALL) and in a  subset of peripheral T-cell lymphomas. Normal expression of CD7 is largely confined to T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, reducing the risk of off-target-organ toxicity. Here, we show that the expression of a CD7-specific CAR impaired expansion of transduced T cells because of residual CD7 expression and the ensuing fratricide. We demonstrate that targeted genomic disruption of the CD7 gene prevented this fratricide and enabled expansion of CD7 CAR T cells without compromising their cytotoxic function. CD7 CAR T cells produced robust cytotoxicity against malignant T-cell lines and primary tumors and were protective in a mouse xenograft model of T-ALL. Although CD7 CAR T cells were also toxic against unedited (CD7+) T and NK lymphocytes, we show that the CD7-edited T cells themselves can respond to viral peptides and therefore could be protective against pathogens. Hence, genomic disruption of a target antigen overcomes fratricide of CAR T cells and establishes the feasibility of using CD7  CAR T cells for the targeted therapy of T-cell malignancies."

"763. Cancers (Basel). 2017 Jul 18;9(7). pii: E92. doi: 10.3390/cancers9070092.","Regional Delivery of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-Cells for Cancer Therapy.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cells are T-cells with recombinant receptors targeted to tumor antigens. CAR-T cell therapy has emerged as a mode of immunotherapy and is now being extensively explored in hematologic cancer. In contrast, CAR-T cell use in solid tumors has been hampered by multiple obstacles. Several approaches have been taken to circumvent these obstacles, including the regional delivery of CAR-T cells. Regional CAR-T cell delivery can theoretically  compensate for poor T-cell trafficking and tumor antigen specificity while avoiding systemic toxicity associated with intravenous delivery. We reviewed completed clinical trials for the treatment of glioblastoma and metastatic colorectal cancer and examined the data in these studies for safety, efficacy, and potential advantages that regional delivery may confer over systemic delivery. Our appraisal of the available literature revealed that regional delivery of CAR-T cells in both glioblastoma and hepatic colorectal metastases was generally well tolerated and efficacious in select instances. We propose that the regional delivery of CAR-T cells is an area of potential growth in the solid  tumor immunotherapy, and look towards future clinical trials in head and neck cancer, mesothelioma, and peritoneal carcinomatosis as the use of this technique  expands."

"764. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Jul 18;5(1):59. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0265-y.","Transplanters drive CARs to the clinic by brewing ICE-T: the Moffitt roadmap.","Recent single institution clinical trial successes with anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for B cell malignancies attracted significant attention from industry. Our center sought to rapidly and safely bring industry sponsored pivotal trials to our patients and to prepare for additional cell therapy trials in solid and liquid tumors from both industry and  our own investigators. We implemented a collaborative cross departmental program  to provide clinical care and trial coordination for immune cell therapies. The Moffitt Immune Cell Therapy (ICE-T) program oversees and administers not only CAR T cell therapy for hematologic malignancies, but TIL and TCR therapy for solid tumor patients. Disease specific experts maintain oversight as principal investigators of these key trials yet the coordination and clinical care is centralized to leverage the expertise and infrastructure of our already robust Blood and Marrow Transplantation program."

"765. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Jul 18;5(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0262-1.","Highlights of the 31st annual meeting of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer  (SITC), 2016.","Therapeutic efforts to engage the immune system against cancer have yielded exciting breakthroughs and a growing list of approved immune-based agents across  a variety of disease states. Despite the early successes and durable responses associated with treatments such as immune checkpoint inhibition, there is still progress to be made in the field of cancer immunotherapy. The 31st annual meeting of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer (SITC 2016), which took place November 11-13, 2016 in National Harbor, Maryland, showcased the latest advancements in basic, translational, and clinical research focused on cancer immunology and immunotherapy. Novel therapeutic targets, insights into the dynamic tumor microenvironment, potential biomarkers, and novel combination approaches were some of the main themes covered at SITC 2016. This report summarizes key data and highlights from each session."

"766. Oncotarget. 2017 Jul 18;8(52):90521-90531. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.19361. eCollection 2017 Oct 27.","Chimeric-antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy for solid tumors: challenges and opportunities.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells (CAR-T cells) have been shown  to have unprecedented efficacy in B cell malignancies, most notably in B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with up to a 90% complete remission rate using anti-CD19 CAR-T cells. However, CAR T-cell therapy for solid tumors currently is faced with numerous challenges such as physical barriers, the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and the specificity and safety. The clinical results in solid tumors have been much less encouraging, with multiple cases of toxicity and a lack of therapeutic response. In this review, we will discuss the current stats and challenges of CAR-T cell therapy for solid tumors,  and propose possibl e solutions and future perspectives."

"767. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jul 15;23(14):3499-3509. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2138. Epub 2017 Feb 9.","Vaccination Targeting Native Receptors to Enhance the Function and Proliferation  of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR)-Modified T Cells.","Purpose: The multiple mechanisms used by solid tumors to suppress tumor-specific  immune responses are a major barrier to the success of adoptively transferred tumor-specific T cells. As viruses induce potent innate and adaptive immune responses, we hypothesized that the immunogenicity of viruses could be harnessed  for the treatment of solid tumors if virus-specific T cells (VST) were modified with tumor-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CAR). We tested this hypothesis using VZV-specific T cells (VZVST) expressing a CAR for GD2, a disialoganglioside expressed on neuroblastoma and certain other tumors, so that the live-attenuated  VZV vaccine could be used for in vivo stimulation.Experimental Design: We generated GMP-compliant, GD2.CAR-modified VZVSTs from healthy donors and cancer patients by stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells with overlapping peptide libraries spanning selected VZV antigens, then tested their ability to recognize and kill GD2- and VZV antigen-expressing target cells.Results: Our choice of VZV antigens was validated by the observation that T cells specific for these antigens expanded in vivo after VZV vaccination. VZVSTs secreted cytokines  in response to VZV antigens, killed VZV-infected target cells and limited infectious virus spread in autologous fibroblasts. However, while GD2.CAR-modified VZVSTs killed neuroblastoma cell lines on their first encounter, they failed to control tumor cells in subsequent cocultures. Despite this CAR-specific dysfunction, CAR-VZVSTs retained functional specificity for VZV antigens via their TCRs and GD2.CAR function was partially rescued by stimulation through the TCR or exposure to dendritic cell supernatants.Conclusions: Vaccination via the TCR may provide a means to reactivate CAR-T cells rendered dysfunctional by the tumor microenvironment (NCT01953900). Clin Cancer Res; 23(14); 3499-509. ©2017 AACR."

"768. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Jul 3;13(7):1548-1555. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1291473. Epub 2017 Mar 8.","The basics of CAR T design and challenges in immunotherapy of solid tumors - Ovarian cancer as a model.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells are T cells genetically engineered with CAR constructs which mainly contain scFV and TCR zeta chain. With promising development in blood cancers, CAR T trials are also applied in solid cancers. However, the treatment effect in solid cancers is lower than expected. This review summarizes difference of CAR T applications in solid and blood cancers. Future challenges of CAR T cell treatment in solid cancer are also discussed using ovarian cancer as an example."

"771. Cytotherapy. 2017 Jul;19(7):861-866. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.03.077. Epub 2017 May 5.","Preclinical data support leveraging CS1 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy  for systemic light chain amyloidosis.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Light chain amyloidosis (AL) is a protein deposition disorder that is a result of a plasma cell dyscrasia, similar to multiple myeloma (MM). Immunotherapy is an attractive approach because of the low burden of disease, but the optimal target for AL is unclear. CS1 and B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) are two potential targets because they are expressed on normal plasma cells and MM cells. METHODS: We performed a prospective study evaluating bone marrow specimens of 20  patients with plasma cell diseases, 10 with AL and 10 with MM. We evaluated the clonal population of plasma cells for BCMA and CS1 expression. We designed a second-generation CS1 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) construct, comprising a CS1 antigen-specific scFv, shortened hinge region and CD28 costimulatory domain. Purified central memory T cells were activated and transduced with a lentiviral vector encoding the CS1 CAR. Cytotoxicity was evaluated using 51Cr release assays. Five days after tumor inoculation, NSG mice were injected intravenously with CS1 CAR T cells. RESULTS: Whereas CS1 is present on the plasma cells of AL patients, we found BCMA expression in AL to be markedly low. CS1 CAR T cells were cytotoxic against CS1 positive tumor cells and induced durable tumor regressions in mice. DISCUSSION: Our work represents a novel application of CS1-directed CAR T cells while revealing that BCMA would not be a suitable target. We expect AL to be particularly susceptible to CAR T-cell therapy because of the low tumor burden in the bone marrow."

"772. J Surg Oncol. 2017 Jul;116(1):63-74. doi: 10.1002/jso.24627. Epub 2017 Mar 27.","CAR T-cell therapy for pancreatic cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy utilizes genetic engineering to redirect a patients own T cells to target cancer cells. The remarkable results in hematological malignancies prompted investigating this approach in solid tumors such as pancreatic cancer. The complex tumor microenvironment, stromal hindrance in limiting immune response, and expression of checkpoint blockade on T cells pose hurdles. Herein, we summarize the opportunities, challenges, and state of knowledge in targeting pancreatic cancer with CAR T-cell therapy."

"774. J Cancer. 2017 Jun 23;8(9):1690-1703. doi: 10.7150/jca.18681. eCollection 2017.","The Multi-Purpose Tool of Tumor Immunotherapy: Gene-Engineered T Cells.","A detailed summary of the published clinical trials of chimeric antigen receptor  T cells (CAR-T) and TCR-transduced T cells (TCR-T) was constructed to understand  the development trend of adoptive T cell therapy (ACT). In contrast to TCR-T, the number of CAR-T clinical trials has increased dramatically in China in the last three years. The ACT seems to be very prosperous. But, the multidimensional interaction of tumor, tumor associated antigen (TAA) and normal tissue exacerbates the uncontrolled outcome of T cells gene therapy. It reminds us the importance that optimizing treatment security to prevent the fatal serious adverse events. How to balance the safety and effectiveness of the ACT? At least  six measures can potentially optimize the safety of ACT. At the same time, with the application of gene editing techniques, more endogenous receptors are disrupted while more exogenous receptors are expressed on T cells. As a multi-purpose tool of tumor immunotherapy, gene-engineered T cells (GE-T) have been given different functional weapons. A network which is likely to link radiation therapy, tumor vaccines, CAR-T and TCR-T is being built. Moreover, more and more evidences indicated that the combination of the ACT and other therapies  would further enhance the anti-tumor capacity of the GE-T."

"776. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Jun 20;6(10):e1342909. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1342909. eCollection 2017.","Characterization of a switchable chimeric antigen receptor platform in a pre-clinical solid tumor model.","The universal modular chimeric antigen receptor (UniCAR) platform redirects CAR-T cells using a separated, soluble targeting module with a short half-life. This segregation allows precise controllability and flexibility. Herein we show that the UniCAR platform can be used to efficiently target solid cancers in vitro and  in vivo using a pre-clinical prostate cancer model which overexpresses prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA). Short-term administration of the targeting module to tumor bearing immunocompromised mice engrafted with human UniCAR-T cells significantly delayed tumor growth and prolonged survival of recipient mice both  in a low and high tumor burden model. In addition, we analyzed phenotypic and functional changes of cancer cells and UniCAR-T cells in association with the administration of the targeting module to reveal potential immunoevasive mechanisms. Most notably, UniCAR-T cell activation induced upregulation of immune-inhibitory molecules such as programmed death ligands. In conclusion, this work illustrates that the UniCAR platform mediates potent anti-tumor activity in  a relevant in vitro and in vivo solid tumor model."

"777. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jun 15;23(12):2934-2941. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2440. Epub 2017 Mar 21.","Molecular Pathways: Evaluating the Potential for B7-H4 as an Immunoregulatory Target.","With the clinical success of CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade in treating malignancies, there is tremendous interest in finding new ways to augment antitumor responses by targeting other inhibitory molecules. In this review, we describe one such molecule. B7-H4, a member of the B7 family of immunoregulatory proteins, inhibits T cell proliferation and cytokine production through ligation of an unknown receptor expressed by activated T cells. Notably, B7-H4 protein expression is observed in a high proportion of patients tumors across a wide variety of malignancies. This high expression by tumors in combination with its low or absent protein expression in normal tissues makes B7-H4 an attractive immunotherapeutic target. Preclinical investigation into B7-H4-specific chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, antibody-mediated blockade of B7-H4, and anti-B7-H4 drug conjugates has shown antitumor efficacy in mouse models. The first clinical trials have been completed to assess the safety and efficacy of a  B7-H4 fusion protein in ameliorating rheumatoid arthritis. Clin Cancer Res; 23(12); 2934-41. ©2017 AACR."

"778. Oncotarget. 2017 Jun 14;8(33):55736-55749. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.18469. eCollection 2017 Aug 15.","Tumor reductive therapies and antitumor immunity.","Tumor reductive therapy is to reduce tumor burden through direct killing of tumor cells. So far, there is no report on the connection between antitumor immunity and tumor reductive therapies. In the last few years, a new category of cancer treatment, immunotherapy, emerged and they are categorized separately from classic cytotoxic treatments (chemo and radiation therapy). The most prominent examples include cellular therapies (LAK and CAR-T) and immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-1 and CTLA-4). Recent advances in clinical immunotherapy and  our understanding of the mechanism behind them revealed that these therapies have a closer relationship with classic cancer treatments than we thought. In many cases, the effectiveness of classic therapies is heavily influenced by the status of the underlying antitumor-immunity. On the other hand, immunotherapies have shown better outcome when combined with tumor reductive therapies, not only due to the combined effects of tumor killing by each therapy but also because of a synergy between the two. Many clinical observations can be explained once we start to look at these classic therapies from an immunity standpoint. We have seen their direct effect on tumor antigen in vivo that they impact antitumor immunity more than we have realized. In turn, antitumor immunity contributes to tumor control and destruction as well. This review will take the immunological view of the classic therapies and summarize historical as well as recent findings in animal and clinical studies to make the argument that most of the cancer treatments exert their ultimate efficacy through antitumor immunity."

"784. Cancer Sci. 2017 Jun;108(6):1109-1118. doi: 10.1111/cas.13239. Epub 2017 May 25.","Clinical development of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) is the most frequent hematological malignancy. Although refined chemotherapy regimens and several new therapeutics including rituximab, a chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, have improved its  prognosis in recent decades, there are still a substantial number of patients with chemorefractory B-NHL. Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is expected to be an effective adoptive cell treatment and has the potential to overcome the chemorefractoriness of B-cell leukemia and lymphoma. Recently, several clinical trials have shown remarkable efficacy of anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy, not only in B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia but also in B-NHL. Nonetheless, there are several challenges to overcome before introduction into clinical practice, such as: (i) further refinement of the manufacturing process,  (ii) further improvement of efficacy, (iii) finding the optimal infusion cell dose, (iv) optimization of lymphocyte-depleting chemotherapy, (v) identification  of the best CAR structure, and (vi) optimization of toxicity management including cytokine release syndrome, neurologic toxicity, and on-target off-tumor toxicity. Several ways to solve these problems are currently under study. In this review, we describe the updated clinical data regarding anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy, with a focus on B-NHL, and discuss the clinical implications and perspectives of  CAR T-cell therapy."

"785. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2017 Jun;17(6):50. doi: 10.1007/s11910-017-0754-x.","The Potential of Cellular- and Viral-Based Immunotherapies for Malignant Glioma-Dendritic Cell Vaccines, Adoptive Cell Transfer, and Oncolytic Viruses.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Malignant gliomas, including glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma, are the most frequent primary brain tumors and present with many treatment challenges. In this review, we discuss the potential of cellular- and viral-based immunotherapies in the treatment of malignant glioma, specifically focusing on dendritic cell vaccines, adoptive cell therapy, and oncolytic viruses. RECENT FINDINGS: Diverse cellular- and viral-based strategies have been engineered and optimized to generate either a specific or broad antitumor immune  response in malignant glioma. Due to their successes in the preclinical arena, many of these therapies have undergone phase I and II clinical testing. These early clinical trials have demonstrated the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of  these immunotherapies. Dendritic cell vaccines, adoptive cell transfer, and oncolytic viruses may have a potential role in the treatment of malignant glioma. However, these modalities must be investigated in well-designed phase III trials  to prove their efficacy."

"786. Cytotherapy. 2017 Jun;19(6):703-709. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.03.070. Epub 2017 Apr 19.","Understanding clinical development of chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapies.","BACKGROUND AIMS: In the past decade, many clinical trials with gene- and cell-based therapies (GCTs) have been performed. Increased interest in the development of these drug products by various stakeholders has become apparent. Despite this growth in clinical studies, the number of therapies receiving marketing authorization approval (MAA) is lagging behind. To enhance the success  rate of GCT development, it is essential to better understand the clinical development of these products. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are a GCT  product subtype with promising efficacy in cancer treatment which are tested in many clinical trials, but have not yet received MAA. METHODS: We generated an overview of the characteristics of CAR T-cell clinical development in the United States, Canada and Europe. Subsequently, the characteristics of clinical trials with CAR T-cell products that proceeded to a subsequent clinical trial, used as a proxy for success, were compared with those  that did not proceed. RESULT: From the U.S. and European Union clinical trial databases, 106 CAR T-cell trials were selected, from which 49 were linked to a subsequent trial and 57 were not. The majority of the trials had an academic sponsor from which most did not proceed, whereas most commercially sponsored trials were followed by another clinical trial. Furthermore, trials with a subsequent trial more frequently recruited large patient cohorts and were more often multicenter compared with trials that were not followed up. DISCUSSION: These characteristics can be used by investigators to better design clinical trials with CAR T cells. We encourage sponsors to plan clinical development ahead for a higher efficiency of product development and thereby achieving a higher success rate of development towards MAA."

"787. Cytotherapy. 2017 Jun;19(6):689-702. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2017.03.067. Epub 2017 Apr 11.","Low interleukin-2 concentration favors generation of early memory T cells over effector phenotypes during chimeric antigen receptor T-cell expansion."," BACKGROUND: Adoptive T-cell therapy offers new options for cancer treatment. Clinical results suggest that T-cell persistence, depending on T-cell memory, improves efficacy. The use of interleukin (IL)-2 for in vitro T-cell expansion is not straightforward because it drives effector T-cell differentiation but does not promote the formation of T-cell memory. We have developed a cost-effective expansion protocol for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells with an early memory phenotype. METHODS: Lymphocytes were transduced with third-generation lentiviral vectors and expanded using CD3/CD28 microbeads. The effects of altering the IL-2 supplementation (0-300 IU/mL) and length of expansion (10-20 days) on the phenotype of the T-cell products were analyzed. RESULTS: High IL-2 levels led to a decrease in overall generation of early memory T cells by both decreasing central memory T cells and augmenting effectors. T memory stem cells (TSCM, CD95+CD45RO-CD45RA+CD27+) were present variably during T-cell expansion. However, their presence was not IL-2 dependent but was linked to expansion kinetics. CD19-CAR T cells generated in these conditions displayed in vitro antileukemic activity. In summary, production of CAR T cells without any cytokine supplementation yielded the highest proportion of early memory T cells,  provided a 10-fold cell expansion and the cells were functionally potent. DISCUSSION: The number of early memory T cells in a T-cell preparation can be increased by simply reducing the amount of IL-2 and limiting the length of T-cell expansion, providing cells with potentially higher in vivo performance. These findings are significant for robust and cost-effective T-cell manufacturing."

"789. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2017 Jun 1;22:1644-1654.","FLAG-tagged CD19-specific CAR-T cells eliminate CD19-bearing solid tumor cells in vitro and in vivo.","Autologous T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific for CD19 have demonstrated remarkable efficacy as therapeutics for B cell malignancies. In the present study, we generated FLAG-tagged CD19-specific CAR-T cells (CD19-FLAG) and compared them to their non-tagged counterparts for their effects on solid and hematological cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. For solid tumors, we used HeLa cervical carcinoma cells engineered to overexpress CD19 (HeLa-CD19), and for hematological cancer we used Raji Burkitts lymphoma cells, which endogenously express CD19. Like non-tagged CD19 CAR-T cells, CD19-FLAG CAR-T cells expanded in culture >100-fold and exhibited potent cytolytic activity against both HeLa-CD19  and Raji cells in vitro. CD19-FLAG CAR-T cells also secreted significantly more IFN-gamma and IL-2 than the control T cells. In vivo, CD19-FLAG CAR-T cells significantly blocked the growth of HeLa-CD19 solid tumors, increased tumor cleaved caspase-3 levels, and expanded systemically. CD19-FLAG CAR-T cells also significantly reduced Raji tumor burden and extended mouse survival. These results demonstrate the strong efficacy of FLAG-tagged CD19 CAR-T cells in solid  and hematological cancer models."

"790. Immunotherapy. 2017 Jun;9(7):589-606. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0086.","Cellular immunotherapy of cancer: an overview and future directions.","The clinical success of checkpoint inhibitors has led to a renaissance of interest in cancer immunotherapies. In particular, the possibility of ex vivo expanding autologous lymphocytes that specifically recognize tumor cells has attracted much research and clinical trial interest. In this review, we discuss the historical background of tumor immunotherapy using cell-based approaches, and provide some rationale for overcoming current barriers to success of autologous immunotherapy. An overview of adoptive transfer of lymphocytes, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and dendritic cell therapies is provided. We conclude with discussing the possibility of gene-manipulating immune cells in order to augment therapeutic activity, including silencing of the immune-suppressive zinc  finger orphan nuclear receptor, NR2F6, as an attractive means of overcoming tumor-associated immune suppression."

"791. Int J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Jun;6(1):13-24. doi: 10.2217/ijh-2017-0003. Epub 2017 Jun 30.","Current challenges in the management of follicular lymphoma.","Although typically indolent in nature, follicular lymphoma remains an ongoing challenge for practicing oncologists. While response rates >90% can be achieved with rituximab-based chemoimmunotherapy in advanced stage patients, the complete  remission rates are substantially lower and patients inevitably relapse. The inability to achieve a complete remission and an early progression of disease have recently been determined to be indicative of poorer long-term outcomes. A greater understanding of the pathogenesis of follicular lymphoma has enabled the  development of targeted therapies, which may improve standard treatment approaches. Examples include lenalidomide and obinutuzumab, which are currently in front-line Phase III investigation. Other therapies of interest include small  molecule inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor T cells."

"792. J Clin Invest. 2017 Jun 1;127(6):2176-2191. doi: 10.1172/JCI87624. Epub 2017 Apr  24.","Biopolymers codelivering engineered T cells and STING agonists can eliminate heterogeneous tumors.","Therapies using T cells that are programmed to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T cells) consistently produce positive results in patients with hematologic  malignancies. However, CAR T cell treatments are less effective in solid tumors for several reasons. First, lymphocytes do not efficiently target CAR T cells; second, solid tumors create an immunosuppressive microenvironment that inactivates T cell responses; and third, solid cancers are typified by phenotypic diversity and thus include cells that do not express proteins targeted by the engineered receptors, enabling the formation of escape variants that elude CAR T  cell targeting. Here, we have tested implantable biopolymer devices that deliver  CAR T cells directly to the surfaces of solid tumors, thereby exposing them to high concentrations of immune cells for a substantial time period. In immunocompetent orthotopic mouse models of pancreatic cancer and melanoma, we found that CAR T cells can migrate from biopolymer scaffolds and eradicate tumors more effectively than does systemic delivery of the same cells. We have also demonstrated that codelivery of stimulator of IFN genes (STING) agonists stimulates immune responses to eliminate tumor cells that are not recognized by the adoptively transferred lymphocytes. Thus, these devices may improve the effectiveness of CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors and help protect against the  emergence of escape variants."

"793. J Immunol Res Ther. 2017 Jun;2(1):100-113. Epub 2017 Jun 29.","Chimeric-Antigen-Receptor (CAR) T Cells and the Factors Influencing their Therapeutic Efficacy.","Immunotherapeutic treatments for malignant cancers have revolutionized the medical and scientific fields. Lymphocytes engineered to display chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) molecules contribute to the exciting advancements that have stemmed from a greater understanding of cell structure and function, biological interactions, and the unique tumor microenvironment. CAR T cells circumvent the unique immune evasion capability of tumors by acting in a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) independent manner. Various factors contribute to the efficacy of CAR therapy, including CAR structure, gene transfer strategies, in vitro culture system, target selection, and preconditioning regimens. While recent clinical trials have shown promising success, cytotoxicity and other various challenges need to be addressed before CAR therapy can reach its full clinical potency. This review will discuss factors associated with CAR therapeutic success and the difficulties that continue to be a focus of research  around the world."

"795. Lab Invest. 2017 Jun;97(6):669-697. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.2017.25. Epub 2017 Mar 27.","T-lymphocyte homing: an underappreciated yet critical hurdle for successful cancer immunotherapy.","Advances in cancer immunotherapy have offered new hope for patients with metastatic disease. This unfolding success story has been exemplified by a growing arsenal of novel immunotherapeutics, including blocking antibodies targeting immune checkpoint pathways, cancer vaccines, and adoptive cell therapy  (ACT). Nonetheless, clinical benefit remains highly variable and patient-specific, in part, because all immunotherapeutic regimens vitally hinge on the capacity of endogenous and/or adoptively transferred T-effector (Teff) cells, including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, to home efficiently into tumor target tissue. Thus, defects intrinsic to the multi-step T-cell homing cascade have become an obvious, though significantly underappreciated contributor to immunotherapy resistance. Conspicuous have been low intralesional frequencies  of tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TILs) below clinically beneficial threshold  levels, and peripheral rather than deep lesional TIL infiltration. Therefore, a Teff cell homing deficit may arguably represent a dominant factor responsible for ineffective immunotherapeutic outcomes, as tumors resistant to immune-targeted killing thrive in such permissive, immune-vacuous microenvironments. Fortunately, emerging data is shedding light into the diverse  mechanisms of immune escape by which tumors restrict Teff cell trafficking and lesional penetrance. In this review, we scrutinize evolving knowledge on the molecular determinants of Teff cell navigation into tumors. By integrating recently described, though sporadic information of pivotal adhesive and chemokine homing signatures within the tumor microenvironment with better established paradigms of T-cell trafficking under homeostatic or infectious disease scenarios, we seek to refine currently incomplete models of Teff cell entry into  tumor tissue. We further summarize how cancers thwart homing to escape immune-mediated destruction and raise awareness of the potential impact of immune checkpoint blockers on Teff cell homing. Finally, we speculate on innovative therapeutic opportunities for augmenting Teff cell homing capabilities to improve immunotherapy-based tumor eradication in cancer patients, with special focus on malignant melanoma."

"798. F1000Res. 2017 May 18;6:710. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.10795.1. eCollection 2017.","Harnessing the immune response to target tumors.","Development of immune-based targeted therapy in oncology has limited experience with signal pathway modulation. However, as we have become better versed in understanding immune function related to anticancer response, hints of specific targets associated with sensitivity and resistance have been identified with targeted immune therapy. This brief review summarizes the relationship of several targeted immune therapeutics and activity associated clinical responsiveness."

"799. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 May 16;5:42. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0246-1. eCollection 2017.","A tandem CD19/CD20 CAR lentiviral vector drives on-target and off-target antigen  modulation in leukemia cell lines.","BACKGROUND: Clinical success with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)- based immunotherapy for leukemia has been accompanied by the associated finding that antigen-escape variants of the disease are responsible for relapse. To target hematologic malignancies with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that targets two  antigens with a single vector, and thus potentially lessen the chance of leukemic escape mutations, a tandem-CAR approach was investigated. METHODS: Antigen binding domains from the FMC63 (anti-CD19) and Leu16 (anti-CD20) antibodies were linked in differing configurations to transmembrane and T cell signaling domains to create tandem-CARs. Expression on the surface of primary human T cells was induced by transduction with a single lentiviral vector (LV) encoding the tandem-CAR. Tandem-CARs were compared to single antigen targeting CARs in vitro and in vivo, and to an admixture of transduced cells expressing each CAR in vivo in immunodeficient (NSG) disease-bearing mice. RESULTS: Tandem constructs efficient killed the Raji leukemia cell line both in vitro and in vivo. Tandem CARs generated less cytokine than the CD20 CAR, but similar to CD19 CARs, on their own. In co-culture experiments at low effector to  target ratios with both single- and tandem- CAR-T cells, a rapid down-modulation  of full-length CD19 expression was seen on leukemia targets. There also was a partial down-modulation of CD22, and to a lesser degree, of CD20. Our data also highlight the extreme sensitivity of the NALM-6 cell line to general lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity. While single and tandem constructs were effective in vivo in a standard setting, in a high-disease burden setting, the tandem CAR proved both effective and less toxic than an admixture of transduced T cell populations expressing single CARs. CONCLUSION: Tandem CARs are equally effective in standard disease models to single antigen specificity CARs, and may be both more effective and less toxic in a higher disease burden setting. This may be due to optimized cell killing with more moderate cytokine production. The rapid co-modulation of CD19, CD20, and CD22 may account for the ability to rapidly evolve escape mutants by selecting for leukemic clones that not require these target antigens for continued expansion."

"800. Am J Clin Exp Immunol. 2017 May 15;6(3):27-42. eCollection 2017.","Combination of celecoxib (Celebrex®) and CD19 CAR-redirected CTL immunotherapy for the treatment of B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphomas.","The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) Celecoxib (Celebrex®) received Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in 1998 for treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, and in recent years, its use has been extended to various types of malignancies, such as breast, colon, and urinary cancers. To maintain the survival of malignant B cells, non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL) is highly dependent on inflammatory microenvironment, and is inhibited by celecoxib. Celecoxib hinders tumor growth interacting with various apoptotic genes, such as cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family, phosphor-inositide-3 kinase/serine-threonine-specific protein kinase (PI3K/Akt),  and inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAP) family. CD19-redirected chimeric antigen-receptor (CD19 CAR) T cell therapy has shown promise in the treatment of  B cell malignancies. Considering its regulatory effect on apoptotic gene products in various tumor types, Celecoxib is a promising drug to be used in combination with CD19 CAR T cell therapy to optimize immunotherapy of NHL."

"801. Front Immunol. 2017 May 15;8:555. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00555. eCollection 2017.","Oncolytic Immunotherapy: Conceptual Evolution, Current Strategies, and Future Perspectives.","The concept of oncolytic virus (OV)-mediated cancer therapy has been shifted from an operational virotherapy paradigm to an immunotherapy. OVs often induce immunogenic cell death (ICD) of cancer cells, and they may interact directly with immune cells as well to prime antitumor immunity. We and others have developed a  number of strategies to further stimulate antitumor immunity and to productively  modulate the tumor microenvironment (TME) for potent and sustained antitumor immune cell activity. First, OVs have been engineered or combined with other ICD  inducers to promote more effective T cell cross-priming, and in many cases, the breaking of functional immune tolerance. Second, OVs may be armed to express Th1-stimulatory cytokines/chemokines or costimulators to recruit and sustain the  potent antitumor immunity into the TME to focus their therapeutic activity within the sites of disease. Third, combinations of OV with immunomodulatory drugs or antibodies that recondition the TME have proven to be highly promising in early studies. Fourth, combinations of OVs with other immunotherapeutic regimens (such  as prime-boost cancer vaccines, CAR T cells; armed with bispecific T-cell engagers) have also yielded promising preliminary findings. Finally, OVs have been combined with immune checkpoint blockade, with robust antitumor efficacy being observed in pilot evaluations. Despite some expected hurdles for the rapid  translation of OV-based state-of-the-art protocols, we believe that a cohort of these novel approaches will join the repertoire of standard cancer treatment options in the near future."

"802. Mol Ther. 2017 May 3;25(5):1248-1258. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.03.010. Epub 2017 Mar 31.","Phase I Escalating-Dose Trial of CAR-T Therapy Targeting CEA+ Metastatic Colorectal Cancers.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells have shown promising efficacy in treatment of hematological malignancies, but its applications in solid tumors need further exploration. In this study, we investigated CAR-T therapy targeting  carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA)-positive colorectal cancer (CRC) patients with metastases to evaluate its safety and efficacy. Five escalating dose levels (DLs) (1 × 105 to 1 × 108/CAR+/kg cells) of CAR-T were applied in 10 CRC patients. Our  data showed that severe adverse events related to CAR-T therapy were not observed. Of the 10 patients, 7 patients who experienced progressive disease (PD) in previous treatments had stable disease after CAR-T therapy. Two patients remained with stable disease for more than 30 weeks, and two patients showed tumor shrinkage by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and MRI analysis, respectively. Decline of serum CEA level was apparent in most patients even in long-term observation. Furthermore, we observed persistence of CAR-T cells in peripheral blood of patients receiving high doses of CAR-T therapy. Importantly, we observed CAR-T cell proliferation especially in patients after a second CAR-T therapy. Taken together, we demonstrated that CEA CAR-T cell therapy was well tolerated in CEA+ CRC patients even in high doses, and some efficacy was observed in most of the treated patients."

"804. Cancer Lett. 2017 May 1;393:52-59. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.02.015. Epub 2017 Feb 20.","Intracavitary T4 immunotherapy of malignant mesothelioma using pan-ErbB re-targeted CAR T-cells.","Malignant mesothelioma remains an incurable cancer. We demonstrated that mesotheliomas expressed EGFR (79.2%), ErbB4 (49.0%) and HER2 (6.3%), but lacked ErbB3. At least one ErbB family member was expressed in 88% of tumors. To exploit ErbB dysregulation in this disease, patient T-cells were engineered by retroviral transduction to express a panErbB-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), co-expressed with a chimeric cytokine receptor that allows interleukin (IL)-4 mediated CAR T-cell proliferation. This combination is referred to as T4 immunotherapy. T-cells from mesothelioma patients were uniformly amenable to T4 genetic modification and expansion/enrichment thereafter using IL-4. Patient-derived T4+ T-cells were activated upon contact with a panel of four mesothelioma cell lines, leading to cytotoxicity and cytokine release in all cases. Adoptive transfer of T4 immunotherapy to SCID Beige mice with an established bioluminescent LO68 mesothelioma xenograft was followed by regression or eradication of disease in all animals. Despite the established ability of T4 immunotherapy to elicit cytokine release syndrome in SCID Beige mice, therapy was very well tolerated. These findings provide a strong rationale for the clinical evaluation of intracavitary T4 immunotherapy to treat mesothelioma."

"805. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 May 1;23(9):2255-2266. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1300.  Epub 2016 Nov 4.","Multiplex Genome Editing to Generate Universal CAR T Cells Resistant to PD1 Inhibition.","Purpose: Using gene-disrupted allogeneic T cells as universal effector cells provides an alternative and potentially improves current chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy against cancers and infectious diseases.Experimental Design: The CRISPR/Cas9 system has recently emerged as a simple and efficient way for multiplex genome engineering. By combining lentiviral delivery of CAR and electro-transfer of Cas9 mRNA and gRNAs targeting  endogenous TCR, β-2 microglobulin (B2M) and PD1 simultaneously, to generate gene-disrupted allogeneic CAR T cells deficient of TCR, HLA class I molecule and  PD1.Results: The CRISPR gene-edited CAR T cells showed potent antitumor activities, both in vitro and in animal models and were as potent as non-gene-edited CAR T cells. In addition, the TCR and HLA class I double deficient T cells had reduced alloreactivity and did not cause graft-versus-host  disease. Finally, simultaneous triple genome editing by adding the disruption of  PD1 led to enhanced in vivo antitumor activity of the gene-disrupted CAR T cells.Conclusions: Gene-disrupted allogeneic CAR and TCR T cells could provide an alternative as a universal donor to autologous T cells, which carry difficulties  and high production costs. Gene-disrupted CAR and TCR T cells with disabled checkpoint molecules may be potent effector cells against cancers and infectious  diseases. Clin Cancer Res; 23(9); 2255-66. ©2016 AACR."

"806. Hum Gene Ther. 2017 May;28(5):437-448. doi: 10.1089/hum.2016.025. Epub 2016 Aug 16.","Redirecting T Cells to Glypican-3 with 4-1BB Zeta Chimeric Antigen Receptors Results in Th1 Polarization and Potent Antitumor Activity.","T cells engineered to express CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have shown breakthrough clinical successes in patients with B-cell lymphoid malignancies. However, similar therapeutic efficacy of CAR T cells in solid tumors is yet to be achieved. In this study we systematically evaluated a series  of CAR constructs targeting glypican-3 (GPC3), which is selectively expressed on  several solid tumors. We compared GPC3-specific CARs that encoded CD3ζ (Gz) alone or with costimulatory domains derived from CD28 (G28z), 4-1BB (GBBz), or CD28 and 4-1BB (G28BBz). All GPC3-CARs rendered T cells highly cytotoxic to GPC3-positive  hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatoblastoma, and malignant rhabdoid tumor cell lines in vitro. GBBz induced the preferential production of Th1 cytokines (interferon γ/granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor) while G28z preferentially induced Th2 cytokines (interleukin-4/interleukin-10). Inclusion of 4-1BB in G28BBz could only partially ameliorate the Th2-polarizing effect of CD28. 4-1BB induced superior expansion of CAR T cells in vitro and in vivo. T cells expressing GPC3-CARs incorporating CD28, 4-1BB, or both induced sustained tumor regressions in two xenogeneic tumor models. Thus, GBBz CAR endows T cells with superior proliferative potential, potent antitumor activity, and a Th1-biased cytokine profile, justifying further clinical development of GBBz CAR for immunotherapy of GPC3-positive solid tumors."

"807. Leukemia. 2017 May;31(5):1087-1095. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.39. Epub 2017 Jan 27.","Vaccination to improve the persistence of CD19CAR gene-modified T cells in relapsed pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Trials with second generation CD19 chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) T-cells report unprecedented responses but are associated with risk of cytokine release syndrome (CRS). Instead, we studied the use of donor Epstein-Barr virus-specific  T-cells (EBV CTL) transduced with a first generation CD19CAR, relying on the endogenous T-cell receptor for proliferation. We conducted a multi-center phase I/II study of donor CD19CAR transduced EBV CTL in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Patients were eligible pre-emptively if they developed molecular relapse (>5 × 10-4) post first stem cell transplant (SCT), or prophylactically post second SCT. An initial cohort showed poor expansion/persistence. We therefore investigated EBV-directed vaccination to enhance expansion/persistence. Eleven patients were treated. No CRS, neurotoxicity or graft versus host disease  (GVHD) was observed. At 1 month, 5 patients were in CR (4 continuing, 1 de novo), 1 PR, 3 had stable disease and 3 no response. At a median follow-up of 12 months, 10 of 11 have relapsed, 2 are alive with disease and 1 alive in CR 3 years. Although CD19CAR CTL expansion was poor, persistence was enhanced by vaccination. Median persistence was 0 (range: 0-28) days without vaccination compared to 56 (range: 0-221) days with vaccination (P=0.06). This study demonstrates the feasibility of multi-center studies of CAR T cell therapy and the potential for enhancing persistence with vaccination."

"809. Mol Immunol. 2017 May;85:293-304. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2017.03.017. Epub 2017 Mar 27.","Modification of cytokine-induced killer cells with folate receptor alpha (FRα)-specific chimeric antigen receptors enhances their antitumor immunity toward FRα-positive ovarian cancers.","Folate receptor alpha (FRα) is aberrantly expressed in ovarian cancers but largely absent in normal tissues, and therefore represents an attractive target for immunotherapy. In recent years, modification of T cells with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting FRα has been reported to improve antitumor immunity of T cells. However, there are limited data regarding CAR-modified cytokine-induced killer (CAR-CIK) cells. In the present study, we modified CIK cells with FRα-specific CARs and investigated their antitumor immunity against ovarian cancers. We found that both non-transduced and mock CAR-transduced CIK cells showed only low antitumor activity against either FRα-positive (FRα+) or FRα-negative (FRα-) targets. However, all three generations of CAR-modified CIK cells showed enhanced antitumor activity against FRα+ targets, but not FRα- targets. First-generation ζ-CAR-CIK cells increased production of IFN-γ, enhanced short-term cytotoxicity against FRα+ ovarian cancer cells, and showed modest and  short-term suppression of established tumors; while second-generation 28ζ- and third-generation 28BBζ-CAR-CIK cells showed significant proliferation, enhanced secretion of IL-2, eliminated the FRα+ ovarian cancer cells in long-term co-culture, and showed dramatic and long-term inhibition of tumor growth and prolonged survival of xenograft-bearing mice. It is noteworthy that the 28BBζ-CAR was more potent in the modification of CIK cells than 28ζ-CAR both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, CAR-CIK cells showed more efficient anticancer activity compared with CAR-T cells in vitro, but less efficient than CAR-T cells in vivo.  According to these results, we conclude that modification of CIK cells with FRα-specific CARs enhances their antitumor immunity to FRα+ ovarian cancers. The  third-generation 28BB-ζ CAR containing 4-1BB co-stimulation was more efficient in modification of CIK cells than either first-generation ζ-CAR or second-generation CD28-ζ-CAR."

"810. Per Med. 2017 May;14(3):259-270. doi: 10.2217/pme-2016-0108. Epub 2017 May 5.","The swinging pendulum of cancer immunotherapy personalization.","Cancer immunotherapy has long offered the promise of producing cancer treatments  that are more effective and less toxic than traditional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. That potential has only begun to be realized in the last 5 years with the first US FDA-approved cancer vaccine (sipuleucel-T), checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive cell therapy. While these therapies have been remarkably  more effective than previous cancer immunotherapeutics, they are often limited by their inherently personalized nature. Indeed, each patients immune system and cancer are unique, limiting the scalability and generalizability of new approaches. However, emerging solutions may overcome these limitations, producing off-the-shelf cancer immunotherapies that transform patient outcomes."

"812. Trends Mol Med. 2017 May;23(5):430-450. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2017.03.002. Epub 2017 Apr 13.","CARs: Synthetic Immunoreceptors for Cancer Therapy and Beyond.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are versatile synthetic receptors that provide  T cells with engineered specificity. Clinical success in treating B-cell malignancies has demonstrated the therapeutic potential of CAR-T cells against cancer, and efforts are underway to expand the use of engineered T cells to the treatment of diverse medical conditions, including infections and autoimmune diseases. Here, we review current understanding of the molecular properties of CARs, how this knowledge informs the rational design and characterization of novel receptors, the successes and shortcomings of CAR-T cells in the clinic, and emerging solutions for the continued improvement of CAR-T cell therapy."

"813. Oncotarget. 2017 Apr 29;8(37):62730-62741. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.17528. eCollection 2017 Sep 22.","Driving better and safer HER2-specific CARs for cancer therapy.","Given the clinical efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-based therapy in hematological malignancies, CAR T-cell therapy for a number of solid tumors has been actively investigated. Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a  well-established therapeutic target in breast, as well as other types of cancer.  However, HER2 CAR T cells pose a risk of lethal toxicity including cytokine release syndrome from on-target, off-tumor recognition of HER2. In this review, we summarize the development of conventional HER2 CAR technology, the alternative selection of CAR hosts, the novel HER2 CAR designs, clinical studies and toxicity. Furthermore, we also discuss the main strategies for improving the safety of HER2 CAR-based cancer therapies."

"816. Front Immunol. 2017 Apr 27;8:457. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00457. eCollection 2017.","FCγ Chimeric Receptor-Engineered T Cells: Methodology, Advantages, Limitations, and Clinical Relevance.","For many years, disappointing results have been generated by many investigations, which have utilized a variety of immunologic strategies to enhance the ability of a patients immune system to recognize and eliminate malignant cells. However, in recent years, immunotherapy has been used successfully for the treatment of hematologic and solid malignancies. The impressive clinical responses observed in many types of cancer have convinced even the most skeptical clinical oncologists  that a patients immune system can recognize and reject his tumor if appropriate  strategies are implemented. The success immunotherapy is due to the development of at least three therapeutic strategies. They include tumor-associated antigen (TAA)-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), T cell checkpoint blockade, and TAA-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) T cell-based immunotherapy. However, the full realization of the therapeutic potential of these approaches requires the development of strategies to counteract and overcome some limitations. They include off-target toxicity and mechanisms of cancer immune evasion, which obstacle the successful clinical application of mAbs and CAR T cell-based immunotherapies. Thus, we and others have developed the Fc gamma chimeric receptors (Fcγ-CRs)-based strategy. Like CARs, Fcγ-CRs are composed of an intracellular tail resulting from the fusion of a co-stimulatory molecule with the T cell receptor ζ chain. In contrast, the extracellular CAR single-chain variable fragment (scFv), which recognizes the targeted TAA, has been replaced with the extracellular portion of the FcγRIIIA (CD16). Fcγ-CR T cells have a few  intriguing features. First, given in combination with mAbs, Fcγ-CR T cells mediate anticancer activity in vitro and in vivo by an antibody-mediated cellular cytotoxicity mechanism. Second, CD16-CR T cells can target multiple cancer types  provided that TAA-specific mAbs with the appropriate specificity are available. Third, the off-target effect of CD16-CR T cells may be controlled by withdrawing  the mAb administration. The goal of this manuscript was threefold. First, we review the current state-of-the-art of preclinical CD16-CR T cell technology. Second, we describe its in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity. Finally, we compare the advantages and limitations of the CD16-CR T cell technology with those of CAR T cell methodology."

"817. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Apr 18;5:36. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0239-0. eCollection 2017.","The Why, what, and How of the New FACT standards for immune effector cells.","Novel cellular therapies outside of traditional hematopoietic stem cell transplantation or hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) therapy are currently under evaluation in clinical trials across the United States and around the world. Several cellular products, e.g., CD19-directed Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cells, are poised for FDA approval and thus increased use at a wider range of academic centers within the next year, with the likelihood of dissemination to standard oncology practice once safety is confirmed. However, these therapies entail some unique challenges in terms of logistics of delivery and toxicity management. Building on experiences and Standards established for HPC programs, the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy (FACT) has established new Standards specific to the use of Immune Effector Cells (IEC), including gene-modified T cells and natural (NK) cells. These Standards specify the clinical and quality infrastructure to facilitate safe administration of immune effector cells and formalize subsequent monitoring and reporting of patient outcomes to enable continual process improvement. Below we detail why these standards came into being, what they entail, and how a clinical team might  access educational materials and implement these Standards. We propose that these Standards will be increasingly useful and relied up on as institutions and clinical service lines seek access to these treatment for their patients. FACT will begin accrediting programs that meet these new Standards for clinical administration of Immune Effector Cells in 2017."

"818. Cancer Res. 2017 Apr 15;77(8):2040-2051. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-1577. Epub 2017 Feb 24.","Armed Oncolytic Adenovirus-Expressing PD-L1 Mini-Body Enhances Antitumor Effects  of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in Solid Tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR T cells) produce proinflammatory  cytokines that increase expression of T-cell checkpoint signals such as PD-L1, which may inhibit their functionality against solid tumors. In this study, we evaluated in human tumor xenograft models the proinflammatory properties of an oncolytic adenovirus (Onc.Ad) with a helper-dependent Ad (HDAd) that expresses a  PD-L1 blocking mini-antibody (mini-body; HDPDL1) as a strategy to enhance CAR T-cell killing. Coadministration of these agents (CAd-VECPDL1) exhibited oncolytic effects with production of PD-L1 mini-body locally at the tumor site. On their own, HDPDL1 exhibited no antitumor effect and CAd-VECPDL1 alone reduced  tumors only to volumes comparable to Onc.Ad treatment. However, combining CAd-VECPDL1 with HER2.CAR T cells enhanced antitumor activity compared with treatment with either HER2.CAR T cells alone or HER2.CAR T cells plus Onc.Ad. The benefits of locally produced PD-L1 mini-body by CAd-VECPDL1 could not be replicated by infusion of anti-PD-L1 IgG plus HER2.CAR T cells and coadministration of Onc.Ad in an HER2+ prostate cancer xenograft model. Overall,  our data document the superiority of local production of PD-L1 mini-body by CAd-VECPDL1 combined with administration of tumor-directed CAR T cells to control the growth of solid tumors. Cancer Res; 77(8); 2040-51. ©2017 AACR."

"819. Crit Care. 2017 Apr 14;21(1):89. doi: 10.1186/s13054-017-1678-1.","New drugs, new toxicities: severe side effects of modern targeted and immunotherapy of cancer and their management.","Pharmacological and cellular treatment of cancer is changing dramatically with benefits for patient outcome and comfort, but also with new toxicity profiles. The majority of adverse events can be classified as mild or moderate, but severe  and life-threatening complications requiring ICU admission also occur. This review will focus on pathophysiology, symptoms, and management of these events based on the available literature.While standard antineoplastic therapy is associated with immunosuppression and infections, some of the recent approaches induce overwhelming inflammation and autoimmunity. Cytokine-release syndrome (CRS) describes a complex of symptoms including fever, hypotension, and skin reactions as well as lab abnormalities. CRS may occur after the infusion of monoclonal or bispecific antibodies (MABs, BABs) targeting immune effectors and tumor cells and is a major concern in recipients of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T lymphocytes as well. BAB and CAR T-cell treatment may also be compromised by central nervous system (CNS) toxicities such as encephalopathy, cerebellar alteration, disturbed consciousness, or seizures. While CRS is known to be induced by exceedingly high levels of inflammatory cytokines, the pathophysiology of CNS events is still unclear. Treatment with antibodies against inhibiting immune checkpoints can lead to immune-related adverse events (IRAEs);  colitis, diarrhea, and endocrine disorders are often the cause for ICU admissions.Respiratory distress is the main reason for ICU treatment in cancer patients and is attributable to infectious agents in most cases. In addition, some of the new drugs are reported to cause non-infectious lung complications. While drug-induced interstitial pneumonitis was observed in a substantial number  of patients treated with phosphoinositol-3-kinase inhibitors, IRAEs may also affect the lungs.Inhibitors of angiogenetic pathways have increased the antineoplastic portfolio. However, vessel formation is also essential for regeneration and tissue repair. Therefore, severe vascular side effects, including thromboembolic events, gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation, hypertension, and congestive heart failure, compromise antitumor efficacy.The limited knowledge of the pathophysiology and management of life-threatening complications relating to new cancer drugs presents a need to provide ICU staff,  oncologists, and organ specialists with evidence-based algorithms."

"820. Exp Hematol Oncol. 2017 Apr 14;6:10. doi: 10.1186/s40164-017-0070-9. eCollection  2017.","Advances of CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells in refractory/relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Refractory/relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia remains to be a significant cause of cancer-associated morbidity and mortality for children and adults. Developing novel and effective molecular-targeted approaches is thus a major priority. Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell (CAR-T) therapy, as one of the most promising targeted immunotherapies, has drawn extensive attention and resulted in multiple applications. According to published studies, CD19-directed  CAR-T cells (CD19 CAR-T) can reach a complete remission rate of 94% in both children and adults with refractory/relapsed ALL, much higher than that of chemotherapy. However, the encouraging outcomes are often associated with complications such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS), serious neurotoxicity, and on-target off-tumor effect, which seriously impeded further clinical application  of CAR-T cells. Moreover, CAR-T therapy is typically associated with high relapse rate. This article briefly reviews the manufacture technologies, the conditioning regimens, the cell infusion doses, as well as the prevention and treatment strategies of complications for CAR-T cell therapy."

"821. Cancer Cell. 2017 Apr 10;31(4):476-485. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2017.03.002. Epub 2017 Mar 30.","Harnessing the Immunotherapy Revolution for the Treatment of Childhood Cancers.","Cancer immunotherapies can be classified into agents that amplify natural immune  responses (e.g., checkpoint inhibitors) versus synthetic immunotherapies designed to initiate new responses (e.g., monoclonal antibodies [mAbs], chimeric antigen receptors [CARs]). Checkpoint inhibitors mediate unprecedented benefit in some adult cancers, but have not demonstrated significant activity in pediatric cancers, likely due their paucity of neoantigens. In contrast, synthetic immunotherapies such as mAbs and CAR T cells demonstrate impressive effects against childhood cancers. Intense efforts are underway to enhance the effectiveness of pediatric cancer immunotherapies through improved engineering of synthetic immunotherapies and by combining these with agents designed to amplify  immune responses."

"822. Sci Rep. 2017 Apr 7;7(1):737. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-00462-8.","CRISPR/Cas9-mediated PD-1 disruption enhances anti-tumor efficacy of human chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Immunotherapies with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells and checkpoint inhibitors (including antibodies that antagonize programmed cell death protein 1  [PD-1]) have both opened new avenues for cancer treatment, but the clinical potential of combined disruption of inhibitory checkpoints and CAR T cell therapy remains incompletely explored. Here we show that programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression on tumor cells can render human CAR T cells (anti-CD19 4-1BBζ) hypo-functional, resulting in impaired tumor clearance in a sub-cutaneous xenograft model. To overcome this suppressed anti-tumor response, we developed a  protocol for combined Cas9 ribonucleoprotein (Cas9 RNP)-mediated gene editing and lentiviral transduction to generate PD-1 deficient anti-CD19 CAR T cells. Pdcd1 (PD-1) disruption augmented CAR T cell mediated killing of tumor cells in vitro and enhanced clearance of PD-L1+ tumor xenografts in vivo. This study demonstrates improved therapeutic efficacy of Cas9-edited CAR T cells and highlights the potential of precision genome engineering to enhance next-generation cell therapies."

"823. Mol Ther. 2017 Apr 5;25(4):949-961. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.02.005. Epub 2017 Feb 23.","Integration of a CD19 CAR into the TCR Alpha Chain Locus Streamlines Production of Allogeneic Gene-Edited CAR T Cells.","Adoptive cellular therapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies  have produced significant objective responses in patients with CD19+ hematological malignancies, including durable complete responses. Although the majority of clinical trials to date have used autologous patient cells as the starting material to generate CAR T cells, this strategy poses significant manufacturing challenges and, for some patients, may not be feasible because of their advanced disease state or difficulty with manufacturing suitable numbers of CAR T cells. Alternatively, T cells from a healthy donor can be used to produce an allogeneic CAR T therapy, provided the cells are rendered incapable of eliciting graft versus host disease (GvHD). One approach to the production of these cells is gene editing to eliminate expression of the endogenous T cell receptor (TCR). Here we report a streamlined strategy for generating allogeneic CAR T cells by targeting the insertion of a CAR transgene directly into the native TCR locus using an engineered homing endonuclease and an AAV donor template. We demonstrate that anti-CD19 CAR T cells produced in this manner do not express the endogenous TCR, exhibit potent effector functions in vitro, and mediate clearance of CD19+ tumors in an in vivo mouse model."

"824. Front Immunol. 2017 Apr 3;8:267. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.00267. eCollection 2017.","Engineering Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cells for Racing in Solid Tumors: Dont Forget the Fuel.","T-cells play a critical role in tumor immunity. Indeed, the presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes is a predictor of favorable patient prognosis for  many indications and is a requirement for responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade therapy targeting programmed cell death 1. For tumors lacking immune infiltrate, or for which antigen processing and/or presentation has been downregulated, a promising immunotherapeutic approach is chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. CARs are hybrid receptors that link the tumor antigen specificity and affinity of an antibody-derived single-chain variable fragment with signaling endodomains associated with T-cell activation. CAR therapy targeting CD19 has yielded extraordinary clinical responses against some  hematological tumors. Solid tumors, however, remain an important challenge to CAR T-cells due to issues of homing, tumor vasculature and stromal barriers, and a range of obstacles in the tumor bed. Protumoral immune infiltrate including T regulatory cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells have been well characterized for their ability to upregulate inhibitory receptors and molecules  that hinder effector T-cells. A critical role for metabolic barriers in the tumor microenvironment (TME) is emerging. High glucose consumption and competition for  key amino acids by tumor cells can leave T-cells with insufficient energy and biosynthetic precursors to support activities such as cytokine secretion and lead to a phenotypic state of anergy or exhaustion. CAR T-cell expansion protocols that promote a less differentiated phenotype, combined with optimal receptor design and coengineering strategies, along with immunomodulatory therapies that also promote endogenous immunity, offer great promise in surmounting immunometabolic barriers in the TME and curing solid tumors."

"827. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Apr;66(4):475-489. doi: 10.1007/s00262-016-1949-8. Epub 2016 Dec 29.","Development of T cells carrying two complementary chimeric antigen receptors against glypican-3 and asialoglycoprotein receptor 1 for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.","Adoptive immunotherapy leveraging chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells holds great promise for the treatment of cancer. However, tumor-associated  antigens often have low expression levels in normal tissues, which can cause on-target, off-tumor toxicity. Recently, we reported that GPC3-targeted CAR-T cells could eradicate hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) xenografts in mice. However, it remains unknown whether on-target, off-tumor toxicity can occur. Therefore, we proposed that dual-targeted CAR-T cells co-expressing glypican-3 (GPC3) and asialoglycoprotein receptor 1 (ASGR1) (a liver tissue-specific protein)-targeted  CARs featuring CD3ζ and 28BB (containing both CD28 and 4-1BB signaling domains),  respectively, may have reduced on-target, off-tumor toxicity. Our results demonstrated that dual-targeted CAR-T cells caused no cytotoxicity to ASGR1+GPC3- tumor cells, but they exhibited a similar cytotoxicity against GPC3+ASGR1- and GPC3+ASGR1+ HCC cells in vitro. We found that dual-targeted CAR-T cells showed significantly higher cytokine secretion, proliferation and antiapoptosis ability  against tumor cells bearing both antigens than single-targeted CAR-T cells in vitro. Furthermore, the dual-targeted CAR-T cells displayed potent growth suppression activity on GPC3+ASGR1+ HCC tumor xenografts, while no obvious growth suppression was seen with single or double antigen-negative tumor xenografts. Additionally, the dual-targeted T cells exerted superior anticancer activity and  persistence against single-targeted T cells in two GPC3+ASGR1+ HCC xenograft models. Together, T cells carrying two complementary CARs against GPC3 and ASGR1  may reduce the risk of on-target, off-tumor toxicity while maintaining relatively potent antitumor activities on GPC3+ASGR1+ HCC."

"828. Cancer Lett. 2017 Apr 1;390:188-200. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2016.12.037. Epub 2017 Jan 13.","Recent clinical trials utilizing chimeric antigen receptor T cells therapies against solid tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are a series of manufactured receptors that have the capacity of binding to specific antigens expressed on surface of tumor cells. A CAR normally has an extracellular antigen recognition domain derived from single variable chain of a monoclonal antibody, a transmembrane domain and an intracellular T cell activation domain. During the last decade, CAR-T cells were demonstrated to possess great therapeutic effects on hematological malignancies. However, strategies using CAR-T cells to treat solid tumors have been hindered by considerable obstacles including on tissue off target effects  and cytokine storm syndrome. This review will summarize the current understanding of CAR-T cell therapies and briefly describe the currently enrolled clinical trials in solid tumors."

"829. Cancer Treat Rev. 2017 Apr;55:190-199. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2017.03.010. Epub 2017 Apr 6.","Immunologic approaches for the treatment of multiple myeloma.","The FDA approval of two monoclonal antibodies in 2015has heralded a new era of targeted immunotherapies for multiple myeloma (MM). In this review we discuss the recent approaches using different immunological components to treat MM. In particular, we review current monoclonal antibody based therapies, engineered T-  and NK cell products, off-target immunomodulation, and strategies utilizing allogeneic cell transplantation in MM. We discuss how an immunologic approach offers promise for the treatment of this genetically heterogeneous disease, and how patients with acquired drug resistance may particularly benefit from these therapies. We also describe some of the limitations of the current strategies and speculate on the future of personalized immunotherapies for MM."

"831. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2017 Apr 1;21(2 Suppl):29-34. doi: 10.1188/17.CJON.S2.29-34.","Cytokine Release Syndrome: Inpatient Care for Side Effects of CAR T-Cell Therapy ."," BACKGROUND: Pediatric patients with relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia are more often being treated with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. As with any new therapy, the management of this patient population has a unique set of challenges. The side effects of this therapy can range from mild to severe, with cytokine release syndrome being the most common reason for hospitalization. . OBJECTIVES: This article presents common side effects, treatments, and challenges of caring for hospitalized patients who have received CAR T-cell therapy. . METHODS: A case study is used to illustrate a patients inpatient hospitalization course after receiving CAR T-cell therapy, including the management of treatment-related toxicities. . FINDINGS: As treatments emerge, nurses will be challenged with learning the associated side effects and toxicities. CAR T-cell therapy can result in a unique trajectory of potential symptoms and the potential for complete resolution of disease."

"832. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2017 Apr 1;21(2 Suppl):35-40. doi: 10.1188/17.CJON.2.35-40.","Developing Infrastructure: Managing Patients With Cancer Undergoing CAR T-Cell Therapy .","BACKGROUND: The introduction of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has created challenges and opportunities for nurses. Clinical nurses must be educated on new treatment modalities to recognize toxicity symptoms and to support the therapy moving forward.  . OBJECTIVES: This article will discuss nursing leadership and interventions to standardize care and ensure patient safety while receiving CAR T cells.  . METHODS: Using evolving experience, an interprofessional team created standards of care and identified common toxicities and best practices for their management. Electronic documentation forms were designed, which led to the development of a new research infrastructure to care for patients. . FINDINGS: The ability to safely manage patients on CAR T-cell treatments has improved. The new infrastructure supported clinicians and scientists in transforming the outcomes of diseases with bleak prognoses, which is possible only with strong nursing leadership."

"833. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2017 Apr 1;21(2 Suppl):22-28. doi: 10.1188/17.CJON.S2.22-28.","CAR T-Cell Therapy: Pediatric Patients With Relapsed and Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia .","BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy provides a promising treatment option for children and  adolescents with refractory or relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).  . OBJECTIVES: This article presents a hospitals experience with providing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, followed by a detailed discussion of the trajectory of treatment provided for pediatric patients and their families. . METHODS: Clinical experience in delivering care to pediatric patients undergoing  CAR T-cell therapy is described. Care coordination, patient and family assessment and education, and post-CAR T-cell infusion monitoring are presented.  . FINDINGS: Of 59 patients having been treated with CAR T-cell therapy at the authors institution, 93% had a complete response at day 28. The 12-month relapse-free survival rate is 55%. A multidisciplinary team of skilled clinicians is recommended to support patient and family needs throughout screening, treatment, and follow-up while coordinating care with the referring oncologist."

"834. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2017 Apr;12(2):119-125. doi: 10.1007/s11899-017-0373-2.","CARs in the Lead Against Multiple Myeloma.","The recent clinical success of CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in chronic and acute leukemia has led to increased interest in broadening this technology to other hematological malignancies and solid tumors.  Now, advances are being made using CAR T cell technology to target myeloma antigens such as B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), CD138, and kappa-light chain as well as CD19 on putative myeloma stem cells. To date, only a limited number of multiple myeloma patients have received CAR T cell therapy but preliminary results have been encouraging. In this review, we summarize the recently reported results of clinical trials conducted utilizing CAR T cell therapy in multiple myeloma (MM)."

"835. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2017 Apr;17(4):357-368. doi: 10.1080/14737140.2017.1292138. Epub 2017 Feb 20.","Immunotherapeutic strategies for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma: Where will we go?","INTRODUCTION: Historically, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is considered a chemotherapy-resistant tumor. The cornerstone of systemic therapy included mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors, endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Currently, a new era is enteres with promising immunotherapeutic treatments, which are becoming commercially available. Areas covered: We provide a comprehensive review using PubMed and ClinicalTrials.gov about the following immunotherapies in RCC: i) vaccine therapy, ii) adoptive T Cell Transfer and CAR T cells, iii) nonspecific immunotherapy - IL-2 (new formulations), iv) Checkpoint inhibitors, v) other checkpoint-molecules. We will also discuss their mechanism of action and toxicity, the importance of developing new patient selection algorithms (immunoprofiling, guidelines updates) and new biomarkers such as PD-1 expression. Expert commentary: Immunotherapy shows promise, and the current tools used in clinical practice, including guidelines, staging-classification and algorithms should be revised and adapted to the new immunotherapeutic drugs. Although immunotherapy in RCC show promising results, more research is needed in parallel  to discover biomarkers that enable the prediction of a treatment response and therefore lead to better patient selection."

"836. Expert Rev Hematol. 2017 Apr;10(4):299-313. doi: 10.1080/17474086.2017.1303374. Epub 2017 Mar 15.","Targeting indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","INTRODUCTION: Due to recent advancements in the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of B-cell malignancies, there has been an explosion of innovative agents in development. The purpose of this review is to efficiently summarize novel therapies with activity in indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL) targeting surface antigens, signaling pathways, and the tumor microenvironment. Areas covered: A literature search was performed to identify preclinical data and clinical trials focused on the use of targeted therapies in iNHL subtypes including follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma, and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenström macroglobulinemia. Classes reviewed include monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, immunomodulatory agents, B-cell receptor pathway inhibitors, Bcl-2 inhibitors, checkpoint inhibitors, chromatin and epigenetic modulating agents, and CAR T-cells. Expert commentary: Opinions regarding strategies to address the prioritization of novel agents entering clinical development, the determination of rational combination therapy, the development of novel endpoints to expedite clinical development, and the movement towards novel consolidative approaches with immuno- and cellular therapy in an attempt to provide curative treatment options are provided. Also, the economic impact of indefinite therapy is discussed."

"837. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2017 Apr;28(2):61-66. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2016.153.","CAR T-Cell Therapy: Progress and Prospects.","Lentivirus-mediated transduction of autologous T cells with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to confer a desired epitope specificity as a targeted immunotherapy for cancer has been among the first human gene therapy techniques to demonstrate widespread therapeutic efficacy. Other approaches to using gene therapy to enhance antitumor immunity have been less specific and less effective. These have included amplification, marking, and cytokine transduction of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, recombinant virus-based expression of tumor antigens as a tumor vaccine, and transduction of antigen-presenting cells with tumor antigens. Unlike any of those methods, the engineering of CAR T cells combine specific monoclonal antibody gene sequences to confer epitope specificity and other T-cell receptor and activation domains to create a self-contained single vector approach to produce a very specific antitumor response, as is seen with CD19-directed CAR T cells used to treat CD19-expressing B-cell malignancies. Recent success with these therapies is the culmination of a long step-wise iterative process of improvement in the design of CAR vectors. This review aims to summarize this long series of advances in the development of effective CAR vector since their initial development in the 1990s, and to describe emerging approaches to design that promise to enhance and widen the human gene therapy relevance of CAR T-cell therapy in the future."

"838. Immunol Cell Biol. 2017 Apr;95(4):356-363. doi: 10.1038/icb.2016.128. Epub 2016 Dec 22.","CAR T-cell therapy of solid tumors.","The potential for immunotherapy as a treatment option for cancer is clear from remarkable responses of some leukemia patients to adoptive cell transfer using autologous T cells genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). However, the vast majority of cancers, in particular the more common solid cancers, such as those of the breast, colon and lung, fail to respond significantly to infusions of CAR T cells. Solid cancers present some formidable  barriers to adoptive cell transfer, including suppression of T-cell function and  inhibition of T-cell localization. In this review, we discuss the current state of CAR T-cell therapy in solid cancers, the variety of concepts being investigated to overcome these barriers as well as approaches aimed at increasing the specificity and safety of adoptive cell transfer."

"839. Immunol Invest. 2017 Apr;46(3):221-238. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2017.1280051. Epub  2017 Mar 13.","Immunomodulating and Immunoresistance Properties of Cancer-Initiating Cells: Implications for the Clinical Success of Immunotherapy.","Cancer-initiating cells (CICs) represent a relatively rare subpopulation of cells endowed with self-renewal, stemness properties, tumorigenicity in immunodeficient mice, and resistance to standard therapies as well as to immunotherapy. Here, we  review the biological and immunological characteristics of CICs with special focus on the immunomodulating mechanisms they utilize to escape from immunosurveillance. The recently developed immunotherapeutic strategies have yielded remarkable clinical results in many types of tumors, indicating that indeed a patients immune system can mount an immune response, which is effective in controlling tumor growth. However, a high proportion of patients is resistant  or acquires resistance to these therapeutic strategies. The latter findings may reflect, at least in some cases, the inability of the immunotherapeutic strategies used to eradicate CICs. The CICs that escape immune recognition and destruction may give rise to new tumors in the same organ site or through the metastatic colonization in other anatomic sites. Identification of novel therapeutic approaches that can eradicate CICs is a major challenge in the cancer therapy area. An improved understanding of the interactions of CICs with immune system and with tumor microenvironment may contribute to optimize the available therapies and to design novel combination treatments for cancer therapy.ABBREVIATIONS: ALDH, aldehyde dehydrogenase; APC, antigen-presenting cells; APM, antigen-processing machinery; CAR: chimeric antigen receptor; CHK1, checkpoint serine/threonine protein kinase; CIC, cancer-initiating cell; CRC, colorectal cancer; CTLA-4, cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4; GBM, glioblastoma multiforme; GDF-15, growth differentiation factor-15; CSPG4: chondroitin sulfate  proteoglycan-4; IFN, interferon; IL-4, interleukin-4; IL-10, interleukin-10; IL-13, interleukin-13; IL-13α2, α2 chain of IL-13 receptor; mAb, monoclonal antibody; MDSC, myeloid-derived suppressor cell; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; PD-1, programmed death-1; PD-L1 programmed death ligand-1; PDK, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1; PGE2, prostaglandin E2; STAT3, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; TGFB-1, transforming growth factor beta-1; Treg, T regulatory cell."

"840. J Adv Pract Oncol. 2017 Apr;8(3):228-231. Epub 2017 Apr 1.","CAR T-Cell Therapy: On the Verge of Breakthrough in Many Hematologic Malignancies.","There have been promising results from clinical trials on the efficacy of engineering patients immune cells to treat their cancers. CAR T-cell therapy also has unique toxicities advanced practitioners should be aware of."

"841. J Immunother. 2017 Apr;40(3):104-107. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000160.","Possible Compartmental Cytokine Release Syndrome in a Patient With Recurrent Ovarian Cancer After Treatment With Mesothelin-targeted CAR-T Cells.","Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a potentially severe systemic toxicity seen after adoptive T-cell therapy and caused by T-cell activation and proliferation and is associated with elevated circulating levels of cytokines such as C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interferon-γ and has previously been described as a systemic response in hematologic malignancies. A 52-year-old  woman with BRCA 1 mutation positive heavily pretreated advanced recurrent serous  ovarian cancer was treated under a compassionate use protocol with autologous mesothelin-redirected chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CART-meso). Autologous T cells were transduced to express a receptor composed of an extracellular antimesothelin single-chain variable fragment fused to 4-1BB and TCR-zeta signaling domain. This patient was infused with 3×10 CART-meso T cells/m without  lymphodepletion and developed compartmental CRS confined to the pleural cavities. The compartmental CRS was evidenced by an increase in IL-6 and accumulation of CART-meso T cells in pleural fluid compared with peripheral blood and was successfully treated the anti-IL6 receptor antagonist tocilizumab on D21 after the T-cell infusion. This is the first description of a compartmental CRS in a patient with solid malignancy. This response could be due to malignant pleural fluid creating an environment where T cells could interact with tumor cells and suggests localized on-target CAR-T-cell activation."

"842. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2017 Apr;6(2):159-168. doi: 10.21037/tlcr.2017.03.07.","Preclinical rationale for combining radiation therapy and immunotherapy beyond checkpoint inhibitors (i.e., CART).","An increasing appreciation for the role of the immune system in targeting cancer  cells over the last decade has led to the development of several immunomodulatory agents aimed at enhancing the systemic antitumor immune response. One such method is the use of T cells that are genetically engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). The remarkable success of this approach in advanced hematologic malignancies has garnered much enthusiasm for using this novel tool in treating other cancers. However, multiple challenges have hampered the application of this therapy to a broader set of solid tumors, most notably lung cancer. Immunotherapy has already shown great success in lung cancer, and is now the first-line treatment in PD-L1 expressing metastatic disease. Given the mounting evidence that radiation therapy plays a crucial role in amplifying the immune response elicited by immunomodulatory agents, there is potential for radiation to help in  overcoming some of these challenges. In this review, we describe the basic principles of CAR T cell therapy and examine its successes and challenges to date. We then discuss the preclinical and clinical data supporting the use of radiation with immunomodulatory agents with a focus on preclinical rationale for  combining CAR T cells and radiation therapy in future experiments with a focus on lung cancer."

"843. Transl Res. 2017 Apr;182:135-144. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2016.10.008. Epub 2016 Oct  27.","CAR-T therapy for leukemia: progress and challenges.","Despite the rapid development of therapeutic strategies, leukemia remains a type  of difficult-to-treat hematopoietic malignancy that necessitates introduction of  more effective treatment options to improve life expectancy and quality of patients. Genetic engineering in adoptively transferred T cells to express antigen-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has proved highly powerful and efficacious in inducing sustained responses in patients with refractory malignancies, as exemplified by the success of CD19-targeting CAR-T treatment in  patients with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Recent strategies, including manipulating intracellular activating domains and transducing viral vectors, have resulted in better designed and optimized CAR-T cells. This is further facilitated by the rapid identification of an accumulating number of potential leukemic antigens that may serve as therapeutic targets for CAR-T cells. This review will provide a comprehensive background and scrutinize recent important breakthrough studies on anti-leukemia CAR-T cells, with focus on recently identified antigens for CAR-T therapy design and approaches to overcome critical  challenges."

"844. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Mar 29;10(1):78. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0444-9.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells: a novel therapy for solid tumors.","The chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy is a newly developed adoptive antitumor treatment. Theoretically, CAR-T cells can specifically localize and eliminate tumor cells by interacting with the tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) expressing on tumor cell surface. Current studies demonstrated that various TAAs could act as target antigens for CAR-T cells, for instance, the type III variant epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFRvIII) was considered as an ideal target for its aberrant expression on the cell surface of several tumor types. CAR-T cell therapy has achieved gratifying breakthrough in hematological malignancies and promising outcome in solid tumor as showed in various clinical trials. The third generation of CAR-T demonstrates increased antitumor cytotoxicity and persistence through modification of CAR structure. In this review, we summarized the preclinical and clinical progress of CAR-T cells targeting EGFR, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), and mesothelin (MSLN), as well as the challenges for CAR-T cell therapy."

"845. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Mar 28;6(5):e1308618. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1308618. eCollection 2017.","Novel anti-myeloma immunotherapies targeting the SLAM family of receptors.","Treatment for multiple myeloma (MM) has significantly advanced in the last decade with the introduction of proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory therapies. Unfortunately, MM continues to cause significant morbidity and most patients eventually succumb to the disease. As in other areas of cancer, immunotherapy in  MM has also evolved and holds promise to deliver long-lasting remissions or even  cure. The signaling lymphocyte activation molecules (SLAM) family of surface proteins represents a group of potential targets for immunotherapy in MM as some  of the family members are expressed consistently on plasma cells and also on myeloma propagating pre-plasma cells. Here, we review the SLAM family members in  detail, describe their tissue distribution, biologic pathways, as well as relevant pre-clinical studies and clinical trials in MM. Our review demonstrates  the value of SLAM family receptors as potential targets for anti-myeloma immunotherapies and outlines how immunotherapeutic approaches can be developed."

"846. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Mar 21;5:22. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0222-9. eCollection 2017.","Safety, tumor trafficking and immunogenicity of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells specific for TAG-72 in colorectal cancer.","BACKGROUND: T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have  established efficacy in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, but their relevance in solid tumors remains undefined. Here we report results of the first human trials of CAR-T cells in the treatment of solid tumors performed in the 1990s. METHODS: Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) were treated in two phase 1 trials with first-generation retroviral transduced CAR-T cells targeting  tumor-associated glycoprotein (TAG)-72 and including a CD3-zeta intracellular signaling domain (CART72 cells). In trial C-9701 and C-9702, CART72 cells were administered in escalating doses up to 1010 total cells; in trial C-9701 CART72 cells were administered by intravenous infusion. In trial C-9702, CART72 cells were administered via direct hepatic artery infusion in patients with colorectal  liver metastases. In both trials, a brief course of interferon-alpha (IFN-α) was  given with each CART72 infusion to upregulate expression of TAG-72. RESULTS: Fourteen patients were enrolled in C-9701 and nine in C-9702. CART72 manufacturing success rate was 100% with an average transduction efficiency of 38%. Ten patients were treated in CC-9701 and 6 in CC-9702. Symptoms consistent with low-grade, cytokine release syndrome were observed in both trials without clear evidence of on target/off tumor toxicity. Detectable, but mostly short-term (≤14 weeks), persistence of CART72 cells was observed in blood; one patient had CART72 cells detectable at 48 weeks. Trafficking to tumor tissues was confirmed in a tumor biopsy from one of three patients. A subset of patients had 111Indium-labeled CART72 cells injected, and trafficking could be detected to liver, but T cells appeared largely excluded from large metastatic deposits. Tumor biomarkers carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and TAG-72 were measured in serum; there was a precipitous decline of TAG-72, but not CEA, in some patients due to induction of an interfering antibody to the TAG-72 binding domain of humanized CC49, reflecting an anti-CAR immune response. No radiologic tumor responses were observed. CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate the relative safety of CART72 cells. The limited persistence supports the incorporation of co-stimulatory domains in the CAR design and the use of fully human CAR constructs to mitigate immunogenicity."

"847. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Mar 21;5:28. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0230-9. eCollection 2017.","Current approaches to increase CAR T cell potency in solid tumors: targeting the  tumor microenvironment.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy represents a revolutionary treatment for haematological malignancies (i.e. B-ALL). However, the success of this type of treatment has not yet been achieved in solid tumors. One hypothesis  is that the immunosuppressive nature of the tumor microenvironment (TME) influences and affects the efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy. Understanding the  role of the TME and its interaction with CAR T-cells is crucial to improve the potency of adoptive immunotherapy. In this review, we discuss the strategies and  potential combinatorial approaches recently developed in mouse models to enhance  the efficacy of CAR T-cells, with particular emphasis on the translational potential of these approaches."

"848. J Immunother Cancer. 2017 Mar 21;5:26. doi: 10.1186/s40425-017-0227-4. eCollection 2017.","Ex vivo Akt inhibition promotes the generation of potent CD19CAR T cells for adoptive immunotherapy.","BACKGROUND: Insufficient persistence and effector function of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T cells have been challenging issues for adoptive T cell therapy. Generating potent CAR T cells is of increasing importance in the field. Studies have demonstrated the importance of the Akt pathway in the regulation of T cell differentiation and memory formation. We now investigate whether inhibition of Akt signaling during ex vivo expansion of CAR T cells can promote the generation of CAR T cells with enhanced antitumor activity following  adoptive therapy in a murine leukemia xenograft model. METHODS: Various T cell subsets including CD8+ T cells, bulk T cells, central memory T cells and naïve/memory T cells were isolated from PBMC of healthy donors, activated with CD3/CD28 beads, and transduced with a lentiviral vector encoding a second-generation CD19CAR containing a CD28 co-stimulatory domain. The transduced CD19CAR T cells were expanded in the presence of IL-2 (50U/mL) and Akt inhibitor (Akti) (1 μM) that were supplemented every other day. Proliferative/expansion potential, phenotypical characteristics and functionality of the propagated CD19CAR T cells were analyzed in vitro and in vivo after 17-21  day ex vivo expansion. Anti-tumor activity was evaluated after adoptive transfer  of the CD19CAR T cells into CD19+ tumor-bearing immunodeficient mice. Tumor signals were monitored with biophotonic imaging, and survival rates were analyzed by the end of the experiments. RESULTS: We found that Akt inhibition did not compromise CD19CAR T cell proliferation and expansion in vitro, independent of the T cell subsets, as comparable CD19CAR T cell expansion was observed after culturing in the presence  or absence of Akt inhibitor. Functionally, Akt inhibition did not dampen cell-mediated effector function, while Th1 cytokine production increased. With respect to phenotype, Akti-treated CD19CAR T cells expressed higher levels of CD62L and CD28 as compared to untreated CD19CAR T cells. Once adoptively transferred into CD19+ tumor-bearing mice, Akti treated CD19CAR T cells exhibited more antitumor activity than did untreated CD19CAR T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of Akt signaling during ex vivo priming and expansion gives rise to CD19CAR T cell populations that display comparatively higher antitumor activity."

"849. J Transl Med. 2017 Mar 16;15(1):59. doi: 10.1186/s12967-017-1160-5.","Elutriated lymphocytes for manufacturing chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","BACKGROUND: Clinical trials of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cells manufactured from autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) concentrates for the treatment of hematologic malignancies have been promising, but CAR T cell yields have been variable. This variability is due in part to the  contamination of the PBMC concentrates with monocytes and granulocytes. METHODS: Counter-flow elutriation allows for the closed system separation of lymphocytes from monocytes and granulocytes. We investigated the use of PBMC concentrates enriched for lymphocytes using elutriation for manufacturing 8 CD19- and 5 GD2-CAR T cell products. RESULTS: When compared to PBMC concentrates, lymphocyte-enriched elutriation fractions contained greater proportions of CD3+ and CD56+ cells and reduced proportions of CD14+ and CD15+ cells. All 13 CAR T cell products manufactured using the elutriated lymphocytes yielded sufficient quantities of transduced CAR  T cells to meet clinical dose criteria. The GD2-CAR T cell products contained significantly more T cells and transduced T cells than the CD19-CAR T cell products. A comparison of the yields of CAR T cells produced from elutriated lymphocytes with the yields of CAR T cells previous produced from cells isolated  from PBMC concentrates by anti-CD3/CD28 bead selection or by anti-CD3/CD28 bead selection plus plastic adherence found that greater quantities of GD2-CAR T cells were produced from elutriated lymphocytes, but not CD19-CAR T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Enrichment of PBMC concentrates for lymphocytes using elutriation increased the quantity of GD2-CAR T cells produced. These results provide further evidence that CAR T cell expansion is inhibited by monocytes and granulocytes."

"850. Cancer Res. 2017 Mar 15;77(6):1296-1309. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-1831. Epub 2017 Jan 12.","A Multifunctional Role for Adjuvant Anti-4-1BB Therapy in Augmenting Antitumor Response by Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells.","Adoptive immunotherapy utilizing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells has demonstrated high success rates in hematologic cancers, but results against solid malignancies have been limited to date, due in part to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Activation of the 4-1BB (CD137) pathway using an agonistic α-4-1BB antibody is known to provide strong costimulatory signals for augmenting and diversifying T-cell responses. We therefore hypothesized that a combination of α-4-1BB and CAR T-cell therapy would result in improved antitumor  responses. Using a human-Her2 self-antigen mouse model, we report here that α-4-1BB significantly enhanced CAR T-cell efficacy directed against the Her2 antigen in two different established solid tumor settings. Treatment also increased the expression of IFNγ and the proliferation marker Ki67 in tumor-infiltrating CAR T cells when combined with α-4-1BB. Strikingly, α-4-1BB significantly reduced host immunosuppressive cells at the tumor site, including regulatory T cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, correlating with an increased therapeutic response. We conclude that α-4-1BB has a multifunctional role for enhancing CAR T-cell responses and that this combination therapy has high translational potential, given current phase I/II clinical trials with α-4-1BB against various types of cancer. Cancer Res; 77(6); 1296-309. ©2017 AACR."

"851. Int J Nanomedicine. 2017 Mar 13;12:1969-1983. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S127575. eCollection 2017.","Humanized CD7 nanobody-based immunotoxins exhibit promising anti-T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia potential.","BACKGROUND: Nanobodies, named as VHHs (variable domain of heavy chain of HCAb [heavy-chain antibodies]), are derived from heavy-chain-only antibodies that circulate in sera of camelids. Their exceptional physicochemical properties, possibility of humanization, and unique antigen recognition properties make them  excellent candidates for targeted delivery of biologically active components, including immunotoxins. In our previous efforts, we have successfully generated the monovalent and bivalent CD7 nanobody-based immunotoxins, which can effectively trigger the apoptosis of CD7-positive malignant cells. To pursue the  possibility of translating those immunotoxins into clinics, we humanized the nanobody sequences (designated as dhuVHH6) as well as further truncated the Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE)-derived PE38 toxin to produce a more protease-resistant form, which is named as PE-LR, by deleting majority of PE domain II. METHODS AND RESULTS: Three new types of immunotoxins, dhuVHH6-PE38, dVHH6-PE-LR,  and dhuVHH6-PE-LR, were successfully constructed. These recombinant immunotoxins  were expressed in Escherichia coli and showed that nanobody immunotoxins have the benefits of easy soluble expression in a prokaryotic expression system. Flow cytometry results revealed that all immunotoxins still maintained the ability to  bind specifically to CD7-positive T lymphocyte strains without binding to CD7-negative control cells. Laser scanning confocal microscopy revealed that these proteins can be endocytosed into the cytoplasm after binding with CD7-positive cells and that this phenomenon was not observed in CD7-negative cells. WST-8 experiments showed that all immunotoxins retained the highly effective and specific growth inhibition activity in CD7-positive cell lines and  primary T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells. Further in vivo animal model experiments showed that humanized dhuVHH6-PE38 immunotoxin can tolerate higher doses and extend the survival of NOD-Prkdcem26Il2rgem26Nju (NCG) mice transplanted with CEM cells without any obvious decrease in body weight. Further  studies on NCG mice model with patient-derived T-ALL cells, dhuVHH6-PE38 treatment, significantly prolonged mice survival with ~40% survival improvement.  However, it was also noticed that although dhuVHH6-PE-LR showed strong antitumor  effect in vitro, its in vivo antitumor efficacy was disappointing. CONCLUSION: We have successfully constructed a targeted CD7 molecule-modified nanobody (CD7 molecule-improved nanobody) immunotoxin dhuVHH6-PE38 and demonstrated its potential for treating CD7-positive malignant tumors, especially T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia."

"852. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Mar 13;10(1):68. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0437-8.","Incorporation of a hinge domain improves the expansion of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","BACKGROUND: Multiple iterations of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have been developed, mainly focusing on intracellular signaling modules. However, the effect of non-signaling extracellular modules on the expansion and therapeutic efficacy of CARs remains largely undefined. METHODS: We generated two versions of CAR vectors, with or without a hinge domain, targeting CD19, mesothelin, PSCA, MUC1, and HER2, respectively. Then, we  systematically compared the effect of the hinge domains on the growth kinetics, cytokine production, and cytotoxicity of CAR T cells in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: During in vitro culture period, the percentages and absolute numbers of  T cells expressing the CARs containing a hinge domain continuously increased, mainly through the promotion of CD4+ CAR T cell expansion, regardless of the single-chain variable fragment (scFv). In vitro migration assay showed that the hinges enhanced CAR T cells migratory capacity. The T cells expressing anti-CD19  CARs with or without a hinge had similar antitumor capacities in vivo, whereas the T cells expressing anti-mesothelin CARs containing a hinge domain showed enhanced antitumor activities. CONCLUSIONS: Hence, our results demonstrate that a hinge contributes to CAR T cell expansion and is capable of increasing the antitumor efficacy of some specific CAR T cells. Our results suggest potential novel strategies in CAR vector design."

"853. Ecancermedicalscience. 2017 Mar 9;11:725. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2017.725. eCollection 2017.","Highlights from the 58th meeting of the American Society of Haematology, 1-6 December 2016, San Diego, USA.","The recent 58th Annual American Society of Haematology (ASH) meeting held in San  Diego shed light on the usual mixture of groundbreaking basic and translational science and the recent practice-changing clinical trials. Recurrent themes this year were the use of recent next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques to perfect prognostic stratification and disease monitoring. Newer prospects on the  role of metabolism in normal and malignant haemopoiesis and mature data on long-awaited trials on immunotherapy and CAR-T cells in lymphoid neoplasms were also discussed."

"854. Oncotarget. 2017 Mar 7;8(10):17002-17011. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15218.","A versatile system for rapid multiplex genome-edited CAR T cell generation.","The therapeutic potential of CRISPR system has already been demonstrated in many  instances and begun to overlap with the rapidly expanding field of cancer immunotherapy, especially on the production of genetically modified T cell receptor or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. Efficient genomic disruption of multiple gene loci to generate universal donor cells, as well as potent effector T cells resistant to multiple inhibitory pathways such as PD-1 and CTLA4 is an attractive strategy for cell therapy. In this study, we accomplished rapid  and efficient multiplex genomic editing, and re-directing T cells with antigen specific CAR via a one-shot CRISPR protocol by incorporation of multiple gRNAs in a CAR lentiviral vector. High efficient double knockout of endogenous TCR and HLA class I could be easily achieved to generate allogeneic universal CAR T cells. We also generated Fas-resistant universal CAR T cells by triple gene disruption. Simultaneous gene editing of four gene loci using the one-shot CRISPR protocol to generate allogeneic universal T cells deficient of both PD1 and CTLA-4 was also attempted."

"858. Cancer Gene Ther. 2017 Mar;24(3):130-133. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2016.58. Epub 2017 Feb 10.","Current status of immunotherapy for gastrointestinal stromal tumor.","Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) contain tumor-infiltrating immune cells and their presence provides an opportunity and rationale for developing effective forms of immunotherapy. The types of tumor-infiltrating inflammatory cells and relevant immune checkpoint inhibitors are the focus of active investigation. The  most numerous tumor-infiltrating inflammatory cells are tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and CD3+ T cells. Studies have shown that patients with GISTs  that harbor increased numbers of CD3+ T cells have better outcomes. However, the  clinical behavior of GIST has not been shown to correlate with the number of TAMs. The biological significance of other less frequent tumor-infiltrating immune cells including tumor-infiltrating neurtrophils (TINs), natural killer cells (NKs), B cells, dendritic cells (DCs) remains unclear. The immune checkpoint inhibitors CTLA-4, PD1/PDL1 and TIM3/galectin-9 are molecules that can be targeted by synthesized antibodies. Clinical and pre-clinical trials using this approach against immune checkpoint inhibitors, anti-KIT antibody and the generation of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells have shown promising results. The treatment of GIST with immunotherapy is complex and evolving; this article reviews its current status for patients with GISTs."

"859. Cancer Gene Ther. 2017 Mar;24(3):114-120. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2016.54. Epub 2016 Dec 2.","Immunosuppression in liver tumors: opening the portal to effective immunotherapy.","We have recently witnessed substantial progress with immunotherapy for selected diseases. Checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells are among the most promising agents. Whereas much of the early success with CAR-T cells has been demonstrated with hematological malignancies, important barriers remain for the application of CAR-T cell therapies for the management of metastatic solid tumors. The challenges are particularly apparent when considering primary and metastatic tumors in the liver. At baseline, the intrahepatic space is immunosuppressive and this feature is exploited by malignant cells. Fortunately, our evolving understanding of liver immune cell biology is allowing the development of novel immunotherapeutic strategies for the treatment of liver tumors. Furthermore, the unique anatomic features of the liver make possible highly selective immunotherapeutic delivery approaches that may maximize antitumor efficacy while limiting off-target damage to healthy tissues.  This review summarizes the immunobiology of the intrahepatic space and how this knowledge enables identification of hurdles and potential solutions to the barriers facing immunotherapy for liver tumors."

"860. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Mar 1;23(5):1156-1166. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1365.  Epub 2016 Aug 31.","Autologous T Cells Expressing CD30 Chimeric Antigen Receptors for Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma: An Open-Label Phase I Trial.","Purpose: Relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma is a challenge for medical oncologists because of poor overall survival. We aimed to assess the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of CD30-targeting CAR T cells in patients with progressive relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.Experimental Design: Patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma received a conditioning chemotherapy followed by the CART-30 cell infusion. The level of CAR transgenes in peripheral  blood and biopsied tumor tissues was measured periodically according to an assigned protocol by quantitative PCR (qPCR).Results: Eighteen patients were enrolled; most of whom had a heavy treatment history or multiple tumor lesions and received a mean of 1.56 × 107 CAR-positive T cell per kg (SD, 0.25; range, 1.1-2.1) in total during infusion. CART-30 cell infusion was tolerated, with grade ≥3 toxicities occurring only in two of 18 patients. Of 18 patients, seven achieved partial remission and six achieved stable disease. An inconsistent response of lymphoma was observed: lymph nodes presented a better response than extranodal lesions and the response of lung lesions seemed to be relatively poor. Lymphocyte recovery accompanied by an increase of circulating CAR T cells (peaking between 3 and 9 days after infusion) is a probable indictor of clinical  response. Analysis of biopsied tissues by qPCR and immunohistochemistry revealed  the trafficking of CAR T cells into the targeted sites and reduction of the expression of CD30 in tumors.Conclusions: CART-30 cell therapy was safe, feasible, and efficient in relapsed or refractory lymphoma and guarantees a large-scale patient recruitment."

"861. Curr Opin Biomed Eng. 2017 Mar;1:54-62. doi: 10.1016/j.cobme.2017.03.002. Epub 2017 Mar 22.","Immune engineering: from systems immunology to engineering immunity.","The smallpox vaccine represents the earliest attempt in engineering immunity. The recent success of chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells) in cancer once  again demonstrates the clinical potential of immune engineering. Inspired by this success, diverse approaches have been used to boost various aspects of immunity:  engineering dendritic cells (DCs), natural killer (NK) cells, T cells, antibodies, cytokines, small peptides, and others. With recent development of various high-throughput technologies (of which engineers, especially biomedical engineers/bioengineers contributed significantly), such as immune repertoire sequencing, and analytical methods, a systems level of understanding immunity (or the lack of it) beyond model animals has provided critical insights into the human immune system. This review focuses on recent progressed made in systems biology and the engineering of adaptive immunity."

"862. Drugs. 2017 Mar;77(3):237-245. doi: 10.1007/s40265-017-0690-8.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells: Lessons Learned from Targeting of CD19 in B-Cell Malignancies.","Adoptive immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR)-T cells is a rapidly growing therapeutic approach to treating patients with refractory cancer, with over 100 clinical trials in various malignancies in progress. The enthusiasm for CAR-T cells has been driven by the clinical success of CD19-targeted CAR-T cell therapy in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and the promising data in B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Despite the success of targeting CD19 with CAR-T cells in early clinical studies, many challenges remain to improve outcomes, reduce toxicity, and determine the appropriate settings for CAR-T cell immunotherapy. Reviewing the lessons learned  thus far in CD19 CAR-T cell trials and how some of these challenges may be overcome will help guide the development of CAR-T cell therapy for malignancies of B-cell origin, as well as for other hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cancers."

"863. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2017 Mar;22(1):107-121. doi: 10.1080/14728214.2016.1257606. Epub 2016 Dec 25.","Emerging biological therapies to treat acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","INTRODUCTION: Various settings of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) represent unmet medical needs: first remission at high risk of relapse, such as persistent  minimal residual disease (MRD); relapse/refractoriness (R/R); elderly patients. Biological therapies targeting widely-shared antigens of blast cells have entered the clinic in B-cell precursor (BCP)-ALL. Area covered: Results of phase II/III trials of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) and phase I/II trials of adoptive cell therapy by chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells (CAR-T cells) are presented. Rituximab, a naked anti-CD20 MoAb, improves the results of chemotherapy in Philadelphia chromosome-negative BCP-ALL. Inotuzumab ozogamicin,  an anti-CD22 immunotoxin, yields complete remission (CR) rates of 80% in R/R patients and in elderly newly diagnosed patients. Blinatumomab, a bispecific anti-CD19 and anti-CD3 agent redirects effector T cells towards B leukemic cells, is approved in R/R patients (40% CR, duration 6 months) and under investigation in MRD+ CR patients (80% negativation). Autologous anti-CD19 CAR-T cells undergo  proliferation and persistence in the recipient. In limited series, they salvage more than 80% of advanced patients. Cytokine-release syndrome, encephalopathy and B-cell aplasia are shared, to varying extents, by blinatumomab and CAR-T cells. Expert opinion: Despite technological, ethical and clinical issues, biological therapies are currently changing the paradigm of treatment in BCP-ALL, and seem promised to dramatic developments."

"864. Hum Gene Ther. 2017 Mar;28(3):231-241. doi: 10.1089/hum.2016.092. Epub 2016 Dec 1.","Acute Myeloid Leukemia Targeting by Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells: Bridging the Gap from Preclinical Modeling to Human Studies.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) still represents an unmet clinical need for adult and pediatric high-risk patients, thus demanding advanced and personalized therapies. In this regard, different targeted immunotherapeutic approaches are available, ranging from naked monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to conjugated and multifunctional mAbs (i.e., BiTEs and DARTs). Recently, researchers have focused  their attention on novel techniques of genetic manipulation specifically to redirect cytotoxic T cells endowed with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) toward  selected tumor associated antigens. So far, CAR T cells targeting the CD19 antigen expressed by B-cell origin hematological cancers have gained impressive clinical results, leading to the possibility of translating the CAR platform to treat other hematological malignancies such as AML. However, one of the main concerns in the field of AML CAR immunotherapy is the identification of an ideal  target cell surface antigen, being highly expressed on tumor cells but minimally  present on healthy tissues, together with the design of an anti-AML CAR appropriately balancing efficacy and safety profiles. The current review focuses  mainly on AML target antigens and the related immunotherapeutic approaches developed so far, deeply dissecting methods of CAR T cell safety improvements, when designing novel CARs approaching human studies."

"866. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2017 Mar-Apr;51(2):274-287. doi: 10.7868/S0026898417020148.","[CAR T-cell therapy: Balance of efficacy and safety].","Early results from clinical trials of autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells for the therapy of B-cell malignancies have encouraged extending the potency of this therapy to other cancers. However, the success of using CAR T-cells to treat patients with solid tumors has been limited. In this review, we summarize current knowledge on the design and applications of CARs for the targeted therapy of cancer. We describe existing issues that limit the widespread application of CAR T cells and discuss the optimization steps needed to further improve safety and efficacy of this therapeutic platform."

"867. Mol Ther. 2017 Mar 1;25(3):580-592. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.01.011. Epub 2017 Feb 8.","Inducible Caspase-9 Selectively Modulates the Toxicities of CD19-Specific Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified T Cells.","Immunotherapy with T cells expressing the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) specific for the CD19 antigen (CD19.CAR-Ts) is a very effective treatment in B cell lymphoid malignancies. However, B cell aplasia and cytokine release syndrome (CRS) secondary to the infusion of CD19.CAR-Ts remain significant drawbacks. The  inclusion of safety switches into the vector encoding the CAR is seen as the safest method to terminate the effects of CD19.CAR-Ts in case of severe toxicities or after achieving long-term sustained remissions. By contrast, the complete elimination of CD19.CAR-Ts when CRS occurs may jeopardize clinical responses as CRS and antitumor activity seem to concur. We have demonstrated, in  a humanized mouse model, that the inducible caspase-9 (iC9) safety switch can eliminate CD19.CAR-Ts in a dose-dependent manner, allowing either a selective containment of CD19.CAR-T expansion in case of CRS or complete deletion on demand granting normal B cell reconstitution."

"868. Pharmacotherapy. 2017 Mar;37(3):334-345. doi: 10.1002/phar.1900. Epub 2017 Feb 22.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in Hematologic Malignancies.","Patients with B-cell hematologic malignancies who progress through first- or second-line chemotherapy have a poor prognosis. Early clinical trials with autologous anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have demonstrated promising results for patients who have relapsed or refractory disease. Lymphodepleting conditioning regimens, including cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, pentostatin, bendamustine, interleukin-2, and total body irradiation, are often administered before the infusion of CAR T cells, allowing for greater T-cell expansion. The major toxicity associated with CAR T-cell infusions is cytokine release syndrome (CRS), a potentially life-threatening systemic inflammatory disorder. The quick onset and progression of CRS require rapid detection and intervention to reduce treatment-related mortality. Management with tocilizumab can help ameliorate the symptoms of severe CRS, allowing steroids, which diminish the expansion and persistence of CAR T cells, to be reserved for tocilizumab-refractory patients. Other toxicities of CAR T-cell therapy include neutropenia and/or febrile neutropenia, infection, tumor lysis syndrome, neurotoxicity and nausea/vomiting. A review of patients medications is imperative to eliminate medications that may contribute to treatment-related toxicities. Studies are ongoing to help optimize patient selection, preparation,  safety, and management of individuals receiving CAR T cells. Long-term follow-up  will help establish the place of CAR T cells in therapy."

"869. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Feb 21;10(1):53. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0423-1.","New development in CAR-T cell therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells (CAR-T cells) have yielded unprecedented efficacy in B cell malignancies, most remarkably in anti-CD19 CAR-T cells for B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with up to a 90% complete remission rate. However, tumor antigen escape has emerged as a main challenge for the long-term disease control of this promising immunotherapy in B cell malignancies. In addition, this success has encountered significant hurdles in translation to solid tumors, and the safety of the on-target/off-tumor recognition of normal tissues is one of the main reasons. In this mini-review, we characterize some of the mechanisms for antigen loss relapse and new strategies to address this issue. In addition, we discuss some novel CAR designs that are being considered to enhance the safety of CAR-T cell therapy in solid tumors."

"870. Cell. 2017 Feb 9;168(4):724-740. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2017.01.016.","The Principles of Engineering Immune Cells to Treat Cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have proven that engineered immune cells  can serve as a powerful new class of cancer therapeutics. Clinical experience has helped to define the major challenges that must be met to make engineered T cells a reliable, safe, and effective platform that can be deployed against a broad range of tumors. The emergence of synthetic biology approaches for cellular engineering is providing us with a broadly expanded set of tools for programming  immune cells. We discuss how these tools could be used to design the next generation of smart T cell precision therapeutics."

"872. Oncotarget. 2017 Feb 7;8(6):9488-9499. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.14367.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T Cells inhibit the growth and metastases of established tissue factor-positive tumors in NOG mice.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cell (CAR T) is a promising therapeutic option for patients with cancer. Such an approach requires the identification of tumor-specific antigen targets that are expressed in solid tumors. We developed a new third-generation CAR directed against tissue factor (TF), a surface molecule overexpressed in some types of lung cancer, melanoma and other cancers. First, we demonstrated by immunohistochemistry that TF was overexpressed in squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma using a human tissue microarray. In the presence of TF-positive cancer cells, the CAR-modified T cells (TF-CAR T) were highly activated and showed specific cytotoxicity to TF-positive cancer cells in vitro.  In established s.c. xenograft and lung metastasis models, TF-CAR T cells could significantly suppress the growth of s.c. xenograft and metastasis of TF-positive cancer cells. Additionally, the safety evaluation of TF-CAR T cells in vivo showed that the treatment did not cause obvious toxicity in mice. Taken together, these findings indicate that TF-CAR T cells might be a novel potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of patients with TF-positive cancers."

"873. Oncotarget. 2017 Feb 7;8(6):10748-10759. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13314.","Magic year for multiple myeloma therapeutics: Key takeaways from the ASH 2015 annual meeting.","Despite the availability of various anticancer agents, Multiple Myeloma (MM) remains incurable in most cases, along with high relapse rate in the patients treated with these agents. The year 2015 saw major advancements in our battle against multiple myeloma. In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved three new therapies for multiple myeloma, namely Ixazomib (an oral proteasome inhibitor), Daratumumab and Elotuzumab (monoclonal antibodies against  CD38 and SLAMF7 respectively). The purpose of this review is to provide a detailed analysis of these aforementioned breakthrough therapies and two other newer agents, Filanesib (kinesis spindle inhibitor) and selinexor (SINE inhibitor), presented at the 2015 annual meeting of American Society of Hematology (ASH). We also describe the role of agents targeting PD-1 axis and chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells in the treatment of MM."

"874. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Feb 6;6(3):e1284722. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1284722. eCollection 2017.","PSCA and MUC1 in non-small-cell lung cancer as targets of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","In recent years, immunotherapies, such as those involving chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have become increasingly promising approaches to non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treatment. In this study, we explored the antitumor potential of prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA)-redirected CAR T and mucin 1 (MUC1)-redirected CAR T cells in tumor models of NSCLC. First, we generated patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse models of human NSCLC that maintained the antigenic profiles of primary tumors. Next, we demonstrated the expression of PSCA and MUC1 in NSCLC, followed by the generation and confirmation of the specificity and efficacy of PSCA- and MUC1-targeting CAR T cells against NSCLC cell lines in vitro. Finally, we demonstrated that PSCA-targeting CAR T cells could efficiently suppress NSCLC tumor growth in PDX mice and synergistically eliminate PSCA+MUC1+ tumors when combined with MUC1-targeting CAR T cells. Taken together, our studies demonstrate that PSCA and MUC1 are both promising CAR T cell targets in NSCLC and that the combinatorial targeting of these antigens could further enhance the antitumor efficacy of CAR T cells."

"875. Clin Transl Radiat Oncol. 2017 Feb 4;2:29-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ctro.2016.12.006. eCollection 2017 Feb.","Beyond checkpoint inhibition - Immunotherapeutical strategies in combination with radiation.","The revival of cancer immunotherapy has taken place with the clinical success of  immune checkpoint inhibition. However, the spectrum of immunotherapeutic approaches is much broader encompassing T cell engaging strategies, tumour-specific vaccination, antibodies or immunocytokines. This review focuses on the immunological effects of irradiation and the evidence available on combination strategies with immunotherapy. The available data suggest great potential of combined treatments, yet also poses questions about dose, fractionation, timing and most promising multimodal strategies."

"879. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2017 Feb;13(2):151-155. doi: 10.1080/1744666X.2016.1221763. Epub 2016 Aug 22.","Shared target antigens on cancer cells and tissue stem cells: go or no-go for CAR T cells?","INTRODUCTION: Adoptive therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells redirected towards CD19 produces remissions of B cell malignancies, however, it also eradicates healthy B cells sharing the target antigen. Such on-target off-tumor toxicity raises serious safety concerns when the target antigen is also expressed by tissue stem cells, with the risk of lasting tissue destruction. Areas covered: We discuss CAR T cell targeting of activation antigens versus lineage associated antigens on the basis of recent experimental and animal data and the literature in the field. Expert commentary: Targeting an activation associated antigen which is transiently expressed by stem cells seems to be safe, like CAR T cells targeting CD30 spare CD30+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells while eliminating CD30+ lymphoma cells, whereas targeting lineage associated antigens which increase in expression during cell maturation, like folate receptor-β and CD123, is of risk to destruct tissue stem cells."

"880. Health Technol Assess. 2017 Feb;21(7):1-204. doi: 10.3310/hta21070.","The assessment and appraisal of regenerative medicines and cell therapy products: an exploration of methods for review, economic evaluation and appraisal.","BACKGROUND: The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) commissioned a mock technology appraisal to assess whether changes to its methods and processes are needed. This report presents the findings of independent research commissioned to inform this appraisal and the deliberations  of a panel convened by NICE to evaluate the mock appraisal. METHODS: Our research included reviews to identify issues, analysis methods and conceptual differences and the relevance of alternative decision frameworks, alongside the development of an exemplar case study of chimeric antigen receptor  (CAR) T-cell therapy for treating acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. RESULTS: An assessment of previous evaluations of regenerative medicines found that, although there were a number of evidential challenges, none was unique to regenerative medicines or was beyond the scope of existing methods used to conceptualise decision uncertainty. Regarding the clinical evidence for regenerative medicines, the issues were those associated with a limited evidence  base but were not unique to regenerative medicines: small non-randomised studies, high variation in response and the intervention subject to continuing development. The relative treatment effects generated from single-arm trials are  likely to be optimistic unless it is certain that the historical data have accurately estimated the efficacy of the control agent. Pivotal trials may use surrogate end points, which, on average, overestimate treatment effects. To reduce overall uncertainty, multivariate meta-analysis of all available data should be considered. Incorporating indirectly relevant but more reliable (more mature) data into the analysis can also be considered; such data may become available as a result of the evolving regulatory pathways being developed by the  European Medicines Agency. For the exemplar case of CAR T-cell therapy, target product profiles (TPPs) were developed, which considered the curative and bridging to stem-cell transplantation treatment approaches separately. Within each TPP, three hypothetical evidence sets (minimum, intermediate and mature) were generated to simulate the impact of alternative levels of precision and maturity in the clinical evidence. Subsequent assessments of cost-effectiveness were undertaken, employing the existing NICE reference case alongside additional  analyses suggested within alternative frameworks. The additional exploratory analyses were undertaken to demonstrate how assessments of cost-effectiveness and uncertainty could be impacted by alternative managed entry agreements (MEAs), including price discounts, performance-related schemes and technology leasing. The panel deliberated on the range of TPPs, evidence sets and MEAs, commenting on the likely recommendations for each scenario. The panel discussed the challenges  associated with the exemplar and regenerative medicines more broadly, focusing on the need for a robust quantification of the level of uncertainty in the cost-effective estimates and the potential value of MEAs in limiting the exposure of the NHS to high upfront costs and loss associated with a wrong decision. CONCLUSIONS: It is to be expected that there will be a significant level of uncertainty in determining the clinical effectiveness of regenerative medicines and their long-term costs and benefits, but the existing methods available to estimate the implications of this uncertainty are sufficient. The use of risk sharing and MEAs between the NHS and manufacturers of regenerative medicines should be investigated further. FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment  programme."

"881. Mol Ther. 2017 Feb 1;25(2):314-320. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2016.11.011.","The Flipside of the Power of Engineered T Cells: Observed and Potential Toxicities of Genetically Modified T Cells as Therapy.","Autologous T cells modified to recognize novel antigen targets are a novel form of therapy for cancer. We review the various potential forms of observed and hypothetical toxicities associated with genetically modified T cells. Despite the focus on toxicities in this review, re-directed T cells represent a powerful and  highly effective form of anti-cancer therapy; we remain optimistic that the common toxicities will become routinely manageable and that some theoretical toxicity will be exceedingly rare, if ever observed."

"885. Transl Cancer Res. 2017 Feb;6(1):93-103. doi: 10.21037/tcr.2017.01.08.","The role of novel immunotherapies in non-Hodgkin lymphoma.","Immunotherapy is an evolving modality in the treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Vaccinations with patient-specific tumor-derived antigens have been developed to  strengthen immune response to tumor. The success of rituximab, a monoclonal antibody for CD20 on malignant B-cells, fueled further immunotherapy research. The power of the immune system to fight hematologic malignancies is seen in allogeneic stem cell transplant, where donor T cells attack residual malignant cells in the recipient. Now, three innovative therapeutic immunotherapy classes (I) adoptive cellular therapy; (II) immune-checkpoint inhibitors; and (III) novel antibody therapies show promising results in non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Genetically engineered T cells, CAR T cells, obtained remissions in lymphomas refractory to conventional chemotherapy. Immune-checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab and pembrolizumab revolutionized the treatment of many solid tumors, and unprecedented results are now reported in relapsed/refractory lymphoma. Building  on the success of rituximab, additional therapeutic monoclonal antibodies were developed for lymphoma treatment. Antibodies have recently been further engineered with multiple binding sites to directly engage both tumor and T cells. There are exciting early clinical trial results for the first bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE), blinatumomab, as well as promising ongoing studies for dual antibody molecules, Dual-Affinity Re-Targeting (DART) proteins. This review highlights these three immunotherapy classes for relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin  lymphomas and discusses the mechanism of action, clinical efficacy, and toxicities of each."

"886. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Jan 31;10(1):35. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0405-3.","Allogeneic CD19-CAR-T cell infusion after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in B cell malignancies.","BACKGROUND: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is considered the cornerstone in treatment of hematological malignancies. However, relapse of the hematological disease after allo-HSCT remains a challenge and is associated with poor long-term survival. Chimeric antigen receptor redirected T cells (CAR-T cells) can lead to disease remission in patients with relapsed/refractory hematological malignancies. However, the therapeutic window for infusion of CAR-T cells post allo-HSCT and its efficacy are debatable. MAIN BODY: In this review, we first discuss the use of CAR-T cells for relapsed cases after allo-HSCT. We then review the toxicities and the occurrence of graft-versus-host disease in relapsed patients who received CAR-T cells post allo-HSCT. Finally, we review clinical trial registrations and the therapeutic time window for infusion of CAR-T cells post allo-HSCT. CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of allogeneic CAR-T cells is beneficial for patients with relapsed B cell malignancies after allo-HSCT with low toxicities and complications. However, multicenter clinical trials with larger sample sizes should be performed to select the optimal therapeutic window and confirm its efficacy."

"887. Biosci Rep. 2017 Jan 27;37(1). pii: BSR20160332. doi: 10.1042/BSR20160332. Print  2017 Feb 28.","Chimaeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for tumour immunotherapy.","Chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies, as one of the cancer immunotherapies, have heralded a new era of treating cancer. The accumulating data, especially about CAR-modified T cells against CD19 support that CAR T-cell  therapy is a highly effective immune therapy for B-cell malignancies. Apart from  CD19, there have been many trials of CAR T cells directed other tumour specific or associated antigens (TSAs/TAAs) in haematologic malignancies and solid tumours. This review will briefly summarize basic CAR structure, parts of reported TSAs/TAAs, results of the clinical trials of CAR T-cell therapies as well as two life-threatening side effects. Experiments in vivo or in vitro, ongoing clinical trials and the outlook for CAR T-cell therapies also be included. Our future efforts will focus on identification of more viable cancer targets and more strategies to make CAR T-cell therapy safer."

"889. Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 20;7:39833. doi: 10.1038/srep39833.","An oxygen sensitive self-decision making engineered CAR T-cell.","A key to the success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell based therapies greatly rely on the capacity to identify and target antigens with expression restrained to tumor cells. Here we present a strategy to generate CAR T-cells that are only effective locally (tumor tissue), potentially also increasing the choice of targetable antigens. By fusing an oxygen sensitive subdomain of HIF1α to a CAR scaffold, we generated CAR T-cells that are responsive to a hypoxic environment, a hallmark of certain tumors. Along with the development of oxygen-sensitive CAR T-cells, this work also provides a basic framework to use a  multi-chain CAR as a platform to create the next generation of smarter self-decision making CAR T-cells."

"890. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Jan 19;6(3):e1283460. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1283460. eCollection 2017.","Antigen receptor-redirected T cells derived from hematopoietic precursor cells lack expression of the endogenous TCR/CD3 receptor and exhibit specific antitumor capacities.","Recent clinical studies indicate that adoptive T-cell therapy and especially chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a very potent and potentially curative treatment for B-lineage hematologic malignancies. Currently, autologous  peripheral blood T cells are used for adoptive T-cell therapy. Adoptive T cells derived from healthy allogeneic donors may have several advantages; however, the  expected occurrence of graft versus host disease (GvHD) as a consequence of the diverse allogeneic T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire expressed by these cells compromises this approach. Here, we generated T cells from cord blood hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) that were transduced to express an antigen  receptor (AR): either a CAR or a TCR with or without built-in CD28 co-stimulatory domains. These AR-transgenic HPCs were culture-expanded on an OP9-DL1 feeder layer and subsequently differentiated to CD5+CD7+ T-lineage precursors, to CD4+ CD8+ double positive cells and finally to mature AR+ T cells. The AR+ T cells were largely naive CD45RA+CD62L+ T cells. These T cells had mostly germline TCRα  and TCRβ loci and therefore lacked surface-expressed CD3/TCRαβ complexes. The CD3- AR-transgenic cells were mono-specific, functional T cells as they displayed specific cytotoxic activity. Cytokine production, including IL-2, was prominent in those cells bearing ARs with built-in CD28 domains. Data sustain the concept that cord blood HPC derived, in vitro generated allogeneic CD3- AR+ T cells can be used to more effectively eliminate malignant cells, while at the same time limiting the occurrence of GvHD."

"892. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 15;23(2):478-488. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1203. Epub 2016 Aug 17.","Targeting Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP)-MHC Complex with CAR T-Cell Therapy for Liver Cancer.","PURPOSE: The majority of tumor-specific antigens are intracellular and/or secreted and therefore inaccessible by conventional chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. Given that all intracellular/secreted proteins are processed into peptides and presented by class I MHC on the surface of tumor cells, we used alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), a specific liver cancer marker, as an example to determine whether peptide-MHC complexes can be targets for CAR T-cell  therapy against solid tumors. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We generated a fully human chimeric antigen receptor, ET1402L1-CAR (AFP-CAR), with exquisite selectivity and specificity for the AFP158-166 peptide complexed with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02:01. RESULTS: We report that T cells expressing AFP-CAR selectively degranulated, released cytokines, and lysed liver cancer cells that were HLA-A*02:01+/AFP+ while sparing cells from multiple tissue types that were negative for either expressed proteins. In vivo, intratumoral injection of AFP-CAR T cells significantly regressed both Hep G2 and AFP158-expressing SK-HEP-1 tumors in SCID-Beige mice (n = 8 for each). Moreover, intravenous administration of AFP-CAR T cells in Hep G2 tumor-bearing NSG mice lead to rapid and profound tumor growth  inhibition (n = 6). Finally, in an established intraperitoneal liver cancer xenograft model, AFP-CAR T cells showed robust antitumor activity (n = 6). CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that CAR T-cell immunotherapy targeting intracellular/secreted solid tumor antigens can elicit a potent antitumor response. Our approach expands the spectrum of antigens available for redirected  T-cell therapy against solid malignancies and offers a promising new avenue for liver cancer immunotherapy. Clin Cancer Res; 23(2); 478-88. ©2016 AACR."

"893. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 15;23(2):466-477. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0354. Epub 2016 Jul 7.","Preclinical Assessment of CD171-Directed CAR T-cell Adoptive Therapy for Childhood Neuroblastoma: CE7 Epitope Target Safety and Product Manufacturing Feasibility.","PURPOSE: The identification and vetting of cell surface tumor-restricted epitopes for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T-cell immunotherapy is the subject of intensive investigation. We have focused on CD171 (L1-CAM), an abundant cell surface molecule on neuroblastomas and, specifically, on the glycosylation-dependent tumor-specific epitope recognized by the CE7 monoclonal antibody. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: CD171 expression was assessed by IHC using CE7 mAb in tumor  microarrays of primary, metastatic, and recurrent neuroblastoma, as well as human and rhesus macaque tissue arrays. The safety of targeting the CE7 epitope of CD171 with CE7-CAR T cells was evaluated in a preclinical rhesus macaque trial on the basis of CD171 homology and CE7 cross reactivity. The feasibility of generating bioactive CAR T cells from heavily pretreated pediatric patients with  recurrent/refractory disease was assessed. RESULTS: CD171 is uniformly and abundantly expressed by neuroblastoma tumor specimens obtained at diagnoses and relapse independent of patient clinical risk  group. CD171 expression in normal tissues is similar in humans and rhesus macaques. Infusion of up to 1 × 108/kg CE7-CAR+ CTLs in rhesus macaques revealed  no signs of specific on-target off-tumor toxicity. Manufacturing of lentivirally  transduced CD4+ and CD8+ CE7-CAR T-cell products under GMP was successful in 4 out of 5 consecutively enrolled neuroblastoma patients in a phase I study. All four CE7-CAR T-cell products demonstrated in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our preclinical assessment of the CE7 epitope on CD171 supports its  utility and safety as a CAR T-cell target for neuroblastoma immunotherapy. Clin Cancer Res; 23(2); 466-77. ©2016 AACR."

"894. Annu Rev Med. 2017 Jan 14;68:139-152. doi: 10.1146/annurev-med-062315-120245. Epub 2016 Nov 17.","CAR T Cell Therapy for Solid Tumors.","The field of cancer immunotherapy has been re-energized by the application of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in cancers. These CAR T cells are  engineered to express synthetic receptors that redirect polyclonal T cells to surface antigens for subsequent tumor elimination. Many CARs are designed with elements that augment T cell persistence and activity. To date, CAR T cells have  demonstrated tremendous success in eradicating hematologic malignancies (e.g., CD19 CARs in leukemias). However, this success has yet to be extrapolated to solid tumors, and the reasons for this are being actively investigated. We characterize some of the challenges that CAR T cells have to surmount in the solid tumor microenvironment and new approaches that are being considered to overcome these hurdles."

"895. Front Immunol. 2017 Jan 11;7:690. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00690. eCollection 2016.","Anti-GPC3-CAR T Cells Suppress the Growth of Tumor Cells in Patient-Derived Xenografts of Hepatocellular Carcinoma.","BACKGROUND: The lack of a general clinic-relevant model for human cancer is a major impediment to the acceleration of novel therapeutic approaches for clinical use. We propose to establish and characterize primary human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) xenografts that can be used to evaluate the cytotoxicity of adoptive chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells and accelerate the clinical translation of CAR T cells used in HCC. METHODS: Primary HCCs were used to establish the xenografts. The morphology, immunological markers, and gene expression characteristics of xenografts were detected and compared to those of the corresponding primary tumors. CAR T cells were adoptively transplanted into patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of HCC.  The cytotoxicity of CAR T cells in vivo was evaluated. RESULTS: PDX1, PDX2, and PDX3 were established using primary tumors from three individual HCC patients. All three PDXs maintained original tumor characteristics in their morphology, immunological markers, and gene expression. Tumors in PDX1 grew relatively slower than that in PDX2 and PDX3. Glypican 3 (GPC3)-CAR T cells  efficiently suppressed tumor growth in PDX3 and impressively eradicated tumor cells from PDX1 and PDX2, in which GPC3 proteins were highly expressed. CONCLUSION: GPC3-CAR T cells were capable of effectively eliminating tumors in PDX model of HCC. Therefore, GPC3-CAR T cell therapy is a promising candidate for HCC treatment."

"896. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2017 Jan 11;3:1-9. doi: 10.1038/mto.2016.23. eCollection 2016.","An MHC-restricted antibody-based chimeric antigen receptor requires TCR-like affinity to maintain antigen specificity.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are synthetic receptors that usually redirect T cells to surface antigens independent of human leukocyte antigen (HLA). Here, we  investigated a T cell receptor-like CAR based on an antibody that recognizes HLA-A*0201 presenting a peptide epitope derived from the cancer-testis antigen NY-ESO-1. We hypothesized that this CAR would efficiently redirect transduced T cells in an HLA-restricted, antigen-specific manner. However, we found that despite the specificity of the soluble Fab, the same antibody in the form of a CAR caused moderate lysis of HLA-A2 expressing targets independent of antigen owing to T cell avidity. We hypothesized that lowering the affinity of the CAR for HLA-A2 would improve its specificity. We undertook a rational approach of mutating residues that, in the crystal structure, were predicted to stabilize binding to HLA-A2. We found that one mutation (DN) lowered the affinity of the Fab to T cell receptor-range and restored the epitope specificity of the CAR. DN  CAR T cells lysed native tumor targets in vitro, and, in a xenogeneic mouse model implanted with two human melanoma lines (A2+/NYESO+ and A2+/NYESO-), DN CAR T cells specifically migrated to, and delayed progression of, only the HLA-A2+/NY-ESO-1+ melanoma. Thus, although maintaining MHC-restricted antigen specificity required T cell receptor-like affinity that decreased potency, there  is exciting potential for CARs to expand their repertoire to include a broad range of intracellular antigens."

"898. Mol Ther. 2017 Jan 4;25(1):274-284. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2016.10.011. Epub 2017 Jan 4.","Masked Chimeric Antigen Receptor for Tumor-Specific Activation.","Adoptive cellular therapy based on chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T (CAR-T) cells is a powerful form of cancer immunotherapy. CAR-T cells can be redirected to specifically recognize tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and induce  high levels of antitumor activity. However, they may also display on-target off-tumor toxicities, resulting from low-level expression of TAAs in healthy tissues. These adverse effects have raised considerable safety concerns and limited the clinical application of this otherwise promising therapeutic modality. To minimize such side effects, we have designed an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-specific masked CAR (mCAR), which consists of a masking peptide that blocks the antigen-binding site and a protease-sensitive linker. Proteases commonly active in the tumor microenvironment can cleave the linker and disengage the masking peptide, thereby enabling CAR-T cells to recognize target antigens only at the tumor site. In vitro mCAR showed dramatically reduced antigen binding and antigen-specific activation in the absence of proteases, but  normal levels of binding and activity upon treatment with certain proteases. Masked CAR-T cells also showed antitumor efficacy in vivo comparable to that of unmasked CAR. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of improving the safety profile of conventional CARs and may also inspire future design of CAR molecules  targeting broadly expressed TAAs."

"899. Mol Ther. 2017 Jan 4;25(1):259-273. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2016.10.012. Epub 2017 Jan 4.","Targeting of Aberrant αvβ6 Integrin Expression in Solid Tumors Using Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells."," Expression of the αvβ6 integrin is upregulated in several solid tumors. In contrast, physiologic expression of this epithelial-specific integrin is restricted to development and epithelial re-modeling. Here, we describe, for the  first time, the development of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that couples the recognition of this integrin to the delivery of potent therapeutic activity in a  diverse repertoire of solid tumor models. Highly selective targeting αvβ6 was achieved using a foot and mouth disease virus-derived A20 peptide, coupled to a fused CD28+CD3 endodomain. To achieve selective expansion of CAR T cells ex vivo, an IL-4-responsive fusion gene (4αβ) was co-expressed, which delivers a selective mitogenic signal to engineered T cells only. In vivo efficacy was demonstrated in mice with established ovarian, breast, and pancreatic tumor xenografts, all of which express αvβ6 at intermediate to high levels. SCID beige mice were used for  these studies because they are susceptible to cytokine release syndrome, unlike more immune-compromised strains. Nonetheless, although the CAR also engages mouse αvβ6, mild and reversible toxicity was only observed when supra-therapeutic doses of CAR T cells were administered parenterally. These data support the clinical evaluation of αvβ6 re-targeted CAR T cell immunotherapy in solid tumors that express this integrin."

"901. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Jan 3;10(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s13045-016-0379-6.","A new insight in chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells for cancer immunotherapy.","Adoptive cell therapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells has emerged as a very promising approach to combating cancer. Despite its ability to eliminate tumors shown in some clinical trials, CAR-T cell therapy involves some significant safety challenges, such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and on-target, off-tumor toxicity, which is related to poor control of the dose, location, and timing of T cell activity. In the past few years, some strategies to avoid the side effects of CAR-T cell therapy have been reported, including suicide gene, inhibitory CAR, dual-antigen receptor, and the use of exogenous molecules as switches to control the CAR-T cell functions. Because of the advances of the CAR paradigm and other forms of cancer immunotherapy, the most effective means of defeating the cancer has become the integration therapy with the combinatorial control system of switchable dual-receptor CAR-T cell and immune checkpoint blockade."

"902. Acta Naturae. 2017 Jan-Mar;9(1):6-14.","Engineering Chimeric Antigen Receptors.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are recombinant protein molecules that redirect cytotoxic lymphocytes toward malignant and other target cells. The high feasibility of manufacturing CAR-modified lymphocytes for the therapy of cancer has spurred the development and optimization of new CAR T cells directed against  a broad range of target antigens. In this review, we describe the main structural and functional elements constituting a CAR, discuss the roles of these elements in modulating the anti-tumor activity of CAR T cells, and highlight alternative approaches to CAR engineering."

"903. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2017;1026:371-381. doi: 10.1007/978-981-10-6020-5_17.","New Approaches in CAR-T Cell Immunotherapy for Breast Cancer.","Despite significant advances in surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endocrine therapy, and molecular-targeted therapy, breast cancer remains the leading cause  of death from malignant tumors among women. Immunotherapy has recently become a critical component of breast cancer treatment with encouraging activity and mild  safety profiles. CAR-T therapy using genetically modifying T cells with chimeric  antigen receptors (CAR) is the most commonly used approach to generate tumor-specific T cells. It has shown good curative effect for a variety of malignant diseases, especially for hematological malignancies. In this review, we briefly introduce the history and the present state of CAR research. Then we discuss the barriers of solid tumors for CARs application and possible strategies to improve therapeutic response with a focus on breast cancer. At last, we outlook the future directions of CAR-T therapy including managing toxicities and  developing universal CAR-T cells."

"904. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2017;1036:51-64. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-67577-0_4.","The Role of Tumor Microenvironment in Cancer Immunotherapy.","The field of tumor immunology and immunotherapy has undergone a renaissance in the past decade do in large part to a better understanding of the tumor immune microenvironment. After suffering countless successes and setbacks in the twentieth century, immunotherapy has now come to the forefront of cancer research and is recognized as an important tool in the anti-tumor armamentarium. The goal  of therapy is to aid the immune system in recognition and destruction of tumor cells by enhancing its ability to react to tumor antigens. This traditionally has been accomplished by induction of adaptive immunity through vaccination or through passive delivery of immunologic effectors as in the case of adoptive cell transfer. The recent discovery of immune checkpoints whose purpose is to suppress immune activity and prevent auto-immunity has created a new angle by which reactivity to tumors can be enhanced. Blockers of these checkpoints have yielded impressive clinical results and have recently been approved for use in a  wide variety of malignancies. With data showing increasing rates of not only treatment response, but complete remissions, immunotherapy is poised to become an increasingly utilized therapy in the treatment of cancer."

"905. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2017;995:127-140. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-53156-4_6.","Immune Therapy for Sarcomas.","Absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) recovery rapidly occurring at 14 days after start of chemotherapy for osteosarcoma and Ewing sarcoma is a good prognostic factor. Conversely, lymphopenia is associated with significantly decreased sarcoma survival. Clearly, the immune system can contribute towards better survival from  sarcoma. This chapter will describe treatment and host factors that influence immune function and how effective local control and systemic interventions of sarcoma therapy can cause inflammation and/or immune suppression but are currently the standard of care. Preclinical and clinical efforts to enhance immune function against sarcoma will be reviewed. Interventions to enhance immune function against sarcoma have included regional therapy (surgery, cryoablation, radiofrequency ablation, electroporation, and radiotherapy), cytokines, macrophage activators (mifamurtide), vaccines, natural killer (NK) cells, T cell  receptor (TCR) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, and efforts to decrease inflammation. The latter is particularly important because of new knowledge about factors influencing expression of checkpoint inhibitory molecules, PD1 and CTLA-4, in the tumor microenvironment. Since these molecules can now be blocked using anti-PD1 and anti-CTLA-4 antibodies, how to translate this knowledge into more effective immune therapies in the future as well as how  to augment effectiveness of current interventions (e.g., radiotherapy) is a challenge. Barriers to implementing this knowledge include cost of agents that release immune checkpoint blockade and coordination of cost-effective outpatient  sarcoma treatment. Information on how to research clinical trial eligibility criteria and how to access current immune therapy trials against sarcoma are shared, too."

"906. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2017;995:73-95. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-53156-4_4.","Harnessing the Immune System Against Leukemia: Monoclonal Antibodies and Checkpoint Strategies for AML.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common leukemia among adults and is associated with a poor prognosis, especially in patients with adverse prognostic  factors, older age, or relapsed disease. The last decade has seen a surge in successful immune-based therapies in various solid tumors; however, the role of immune therapies in AML remains poorly defined. This chapter describes the rationale, clinical data, and toxicity profiles of immune-based therapeutic modalities in AML including naked and conjugated monoclonal antibodies, bispecific T-cell engager antibodies, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells, and checkpoint blockade via blockade of PD1/PDL1 or CTLA4. Monoclonal antibodies  commonly used in AML therapy target highly expressed leukemia surface antigens  and include (1) naked antibodies against common myeloid markers such as anti-CD33 (e.g., lintuzumab), (2) antibody-drug conjugates linked to either, (a) a highly potent toxin such as calicheamicin, pyrrolobenzodiazepine, maytansine, or others  in various anti-CD33 (gemtuzumab ozogamicin, SGN 33A), anti-123 (SL-401), and anti-CD56 (lorvotuzumab mertansine) formulations, or (b) radioactive particles, such as 131I, 213Bi, or 225Ac-labeled anti-CD33 or CD45 antibodies. Novel monoclonal antibodies that recruit and promote proximity-induced cytotoxicity of  tumor cells by T cells (bispecific T-cell engager [BiTE] such as anti CD33/CD3, e.g., AMG 330) or block immune checkpoint pathways such as CTLA4 (e.g., ipilimumab) or PD1/PD-L1 (e.g., nivolumab) unleashing the patients T cells to fight leukemic cells are being evaluated in clinical trials in patients with AML. The numerous ongoing clinical trials with immunotherapies in AML will improve our understanding of the biology of AML and allow us to determine the best approaches to immunotherapy in AML."

"907. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2017;995:33-51. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-53156-4_2.","Interleukin-2: Old and New Approaches to Enhance Immune-Therapeutic Efficacy.","Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a very well-known cytokine that has been studied for the  past 35 years. It plays a major role in the growth and proliferation of many immune cells such NK and T cells. It is an important immunotherapy cytokine for the treatment of various diseases including cancer. Systemic delivery of IL-2 has shown clinical benefit in renal cell carcinoma and melanoma patients. However, its use has been limited by the numerous toxicities encountered with the systemic delivery. Intravenous IL-2 causes the well-known capillary leak syndrome, or the leakage of fluid from the circulatory system to the interstitial space resulting in hypotension (low blood pressure), edema, and dyspnea that can lead to circulatory shock and eventually cardiopulmonary collapse and multiple organ failure. Due to the toxicities associated with systemic IL-2, an aerosolized delivery approach has been developed, which enables localized delivery and a higher local immune cell activation. Since proteins are absorbed via pulmonary lymphatics, after aerosol deposition in the lung, aerosol delivery provides a means to more specifically target IL-2 to the local immune system in the lungs with less systemic effects. Its benefits have extended to diseases other than cancer. Delivery of IL-2 via aerosol or as nebulized IL-2 liposomes has been previously shown to have less toxicity and higher efficacy against sarcoma lung metastases. Dogs with cancer provided a highly relevant means to determine biodistribution of aerosolized IL-2 and IL-2 liposomes. However, efficacy of single-agent IL-2 is limited. As in general, for most immune-therapies, its effect is more beneficial in the face of minimal residual disease. To overcome this limitation, combination therapies using aerosol IL-2 with adoptive transfer  of T cells or NK cells have emerged.Using a human osteosarcoma (OS) mouse model,  we have demonstrated the efficacy of single-agent aerosol IL-2 and combination therapy aerosol IL-2 and NK cells or aerosol IL-2 and interleukin 11 receptor alpha-directed chimeric antigen receptor-T cells (IL-11 receptor α CAR-T cells) against OS pulmonary metastases. Combination therapy resulted in a better therapeutic effect. A Phase-I trial of aerosol IL-2 was done in Europe and proved to be safe. Others and our preclinical studies provided the basis for the development of a Phase-I aerosol IL-2 trial in our institution to include younger patients with lung metastases. OS, our disease of interest, has a peak incidence  in the adolescent and young adult years. Our goal is to complete this trial in the next 2 years.In this chapter, we summarize the different effects of IL-2 and  cover the advantages of the aerosol delivery route for diseases of the lung with  an emphasis on some of our most recent work using combination therapy aerosol IL-2 and NK cells for the treatment of OS lung metastases."

"908. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2017;37:193-204. doi: 10.14694/EDBK_180328.","Adoptive T-Cell Therapy for Solid Tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is an innovative form of immunotherapy wherein autologous T cells are genetically modified to express chimeric receptors encoding an antigen-specific single-chain variable fragment and various costimulatory molecules. Upon administration, these modified T cells  traffic to, and recognize, cancer cells in an HLA-independent manner. CAR T-cell  therapy has shown remarkable success in the treatment of CD-19-expressing B-cell  acute lymphocytic leukemia. However, clinical gains to the same magnitude have not been reported in solid tumors. Several known obstacles to CAR T-cell therapy  for solid tumors include target antigen identification, effective trafficking to  the tumor, robust activation, proliferation, and in vivo cytotoxicity. Beyond these T-cell intrinsic properties, a complex and dynamic immunosuppressive tumor  microenvironment in solid tumors hinders T-cell efficacy. Notable advancements in CAR design to include multiple costimulatory molecules, ligands, and soluble cytokines have shown promise in preclinical models, and some of these are currently in early-phase clinical trials. In this review, we discuss selected solid tumor malignancies and relevant preclinical data and highlight clinical trial results that are available. Furthermore, we outline some obstacles to CAR T-cell therapy for each tumor and propose strategies to overcome some of these limitations."

"909. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2017;37:561-568. doi: 10.14694/EDBK_175546.","Hematologic Malignancies: Plasma Cell Disorders.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy characterized by the growth of  tumor cells in the bone marrow. Properties of the tumor microenvironment provide  both potential tumor-promoting and tumor-restricting properties. Targeting underlying immune triggers for evolution of tumors as well as direct attack of malignant plasma cells is an emerging focus of therapy for MM. The monoclonal antibodies daratumumab and elotuzumab, which target the plasma cell surface proteins CD38 and SLAMF7/CS1, respectively, particularly when used in combination with immunomodulatory agents and proteasome inhibitors, have resulted in high response rates and improved survival for patients with relapsed and refractory MM. A number of other monoclonal antibodies are in various stages of clinical development, including those targeting MM cell surface antigens, the bone marrow  microenvironment, and immune effector T cells such as antiprogrammed cell death protein 1 antibodies. Bispecific preparations seek to simultaneously target MM cells and activate endogenous T cells to enhance efficacy. Cellular immunotherapy seeks to overcome the limitations of the endogenous antimyeloma immune response through adoptive transfer of immune effector cells with MM specificity. Allogeneic donor lymphocyte infusion can be effective but can cause graft-versus-host disease. The most promising approach appears to be genetically  modified cellular therapy, in which T cells are given novel antigen specificity through expression of transgenic T-cell receptors (TCRs) or chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). CAR T cells against several different targets are under investigation in MM. Infusion of CD19-targeted CAR T cells following salvage autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT) was safe and extended remission duration in a subset of patients with relapsed/refractory MM. CAR T cells targeting B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) appear most promising, with dramatic remissions seen in patients with highly refractory disease in three ongoing trials. Responses are associated with degree of CAR T-cell expansion/persistence  and often toxicity, including cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity.  Ongoing and future studies are exploring correlates of response, ways to mitigate toxicity, and universal CAR T cells."

"910. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2017;17(10):1344-1350. doi: 10.2174/1871520617666170110151900.","Major Highlights of the CAR-TCR Summit, Boston, 2016.","Cellular immunotherapies such as CAR-T cell therapy and TCR-T cell therapy are relatively new, highly promising approaches for the treatment of cancer. In CAR-T cell therapy, a patients T cells are engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors targeting tumor-associated cell surface antigens. In TCR-T cell therapy, the patients T cells are engineered to express receptors targeting intracellular antigens. This report will summarize presentations from the recent  CAR-TCR summit in Boston on September 13-16, 2016. These presentations were given by leaders in the field and many were divided into three streams: Discovery and Genetic T Cell Engineering; Translation and Clinical Development; and Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Commercialization. The report summarizes major pharmaceutical companies developing these novel therapies and provides challenges and perspectives for future therapeutic developments."

"912. Cancer J. 2017 Jan/Feb;23(1):48-53. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000240.","Adoptive Cell Therapy for Metastatic Melanoma.","Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) is a powerful form of immunotherapy by inducing durable complete responses that significantly extend the survival of melanoma patients. Mutation-derived neoantigens were recently identified as key factors for tumor recognition and rejection by TILs. The isolation of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes directed against  neoantigens and their retransduction into peripheral T cells may provide a new form of ACT.Genetic modifications of T cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have demonstrated remarkable clinical results in hematologic malignancies, but are so far less effective in solid tumors. Only very limited reports exist in melanoma. Progress in CAR T-cell engineering, including neutralization of inhibitory signals or additional safety switches, may open opportunities also in  melanoma.We review clinical results and latest developments of adoptive therapies with TILs, T-cell receptor, and CAR-modified T cells and discuss future directions for the treatment of melanoma."

"913. Cell Res. 2017 Jan;27(1):11-37. doi: 10.1038/cr.2016.155. Epub 2016 Dec 27.","Immune targets and neoantigens for cancer immunotherapy and precision medicine.","Harnessing the immune system to eradicate malignant cells is becoming a most powerful new approach to cancer therapy. FDA approval of the immunotherapy-based  drugs, sipuleucel-T (Provenge), ipilimumab (Yervoy, anti-CTLA-4), and more recently, the programmed cell death (PD)-1 antibody (pembrolizumab, Keytruda), for the treatment of multiple types of cancer has greatly advanced research and clinical studies in the field of cancer immunotherapy. Furthermore, recent clinical trials, using NY-ESO-1-specific T cell receptor (TCR) or CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), have shown promising clinical results for patients with metastatic cancer. Current success of cancer immunotherapy is built upon the work of cancer antigens and co-inhibitory signaling molecules identified 20 years ago. Among the large numbers of target antigens, CD19 is the best target for CAR T cell therapy for blood cancer, but CAR-engineered T cell immunotherapy does not yet work in solid cancer. NY-ESO-1 is one of the best targets for TCR-based immunotherapy in solid cancer. Despite the great success of checkpoint blockade therapy, more than 50% of cancer patients fail to respond to blockade therapy. The advent of new technologies such as next-generation sequencing has enhanced our ability to search for new immune targets in onco-immunology and accelerated the development of immunotherapy with potentially broader coverage of cancer patients. In this review, we will discuss the recent progresses of cancer immunotherapy and novel strategies in the identification of new immune targets and mutation-derived antigens (neoantigens) for cancer immunotherapy and immunoprecision medicine."

"914. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 1;23(1):13-20. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1125. Epub 2016 Oct 14.","Toxicity and Efficacy Probability Interval Design for Phase I Adoptive Cell Therapy Dose-Finding Clinical Trials.","Recent trials of adoptive cell therapy (ACT), such as the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, have demonstrated promising therapeutic effects for cancer patients. A main issue in the product development is to determine the  appropriate dose of ACT. Traditional phase I trial designs for cytotoxic agents explicitly assume that toxicity increases monotonically with dose levels and implicitly assume the same for efficacy to justify dose escalation. ACT usually induces rapid responses, and the monotonic dose-response assumption is unlikely to hold due to its immunobiologic activities. We propose a toxicity and efficacy  probability interval (TEPI) design for dose finding in ACT trials. This approach  incorporates efficacy outcomes to inform dosing decisions to optimize efficacy and safety simultaneously. Rather than finding the maximum tolerated dose (MTD),  the TEPI design is aimed at finding the dose with the most desirable outcome for  safety and efficacy. The key features of TEPI are its simplicity, flexibility, and transparency, because all decision rules can be prespecified prior to trial initiation. We conduct simulation studies to investigate the operating characteristics of the TEPI design and compare it to existing methods. In summary, the TEPI design is a novel method for ACT dose finding, which possesses  superior performance and is easy to use, simple, and transparent. Clin Cancer Res; 23(1); 13-20. ©2016 AACR."

"915. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2017;17(9):839-845. doi: 10.2174/1568009617666170906170348.","Coinhibitory Molecule PD-1 as a Therapeutic Target in the Microenvironment of Multiple Myeloma.","BACKGROUND: Patients with Multiple Myeloma suffer from dysregulation of the immune system and new therapeutic options targeting the immune systems such as monoclonal antibodies or specific Cell therapy such as CAR-T cells have entered clinical practice, but the exhausted immune system hampered a more effective immunotherapy. Targeting the immunological dysfunction in the microenviroment might be a potential target for immune-mediated therapies. METHOD: Here we review the current literature and knowledge about the programmed  death 1 (PD-1) receptor which is expressed on the surface of exhausted T and B cells and its ligand PD-L1 is expressed on myeloma cells and inhibits T cell-mediated apoptosis. RESULTS: The programmed death 1 (PD-1) receptor is expressed on the surface of exhausted T and B cells and its ligand PD-L1 is expressed on myeloma cells and inhibits Tcell-mediated apoptosis. Inhibiting such checkpoint by monoclonal antibodies recently has been shown high activity in solid tumors and malignant lymphomas. In patients with multiple myelomaPD-L1 is overexpressed on myeloma cells and PD1 on T-cells suggesting an active role of PD-1/PD-L1 in the immunosuppressive microenvironment. CONCLUSION: Immunotherapies using anti-PD-1/PD-L1 strategies are a promising treatment options for patients with multiple myeloma."

"916. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2017;17(9):782-805. doi: 10.2174/1568009617666170214103834.","Targeting the Immune Niche within the Bone Marrow Microenvironment: The Rise of Immunotherapy in Multiple Myeloma.","BACKGROUND: Multiple Myeloma (MM) cells inhibit the development of an effective anti- MM immune response via defects in T cell function, ineffective antigen presentation; reduced phagocytic capacity; natural killer and dendritic cell dysfunction; decreased responsiveness to IL-2 and defects in B cell immunity; upregulation of inhibitory pathways; and production of excessive proinflammatory  cytokines. Moreover, immune cells including plasmacytoid dendritic cells and macrophages trigger tumor cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance. The  usefulness of immunotherapies in MM patients has first been supported by the identification of the graft-versus-myeloma effect in the context of allogeneic bone marrow (BM) transplantation. Subsequently, the inclusion of thalidomide and  its derivatives, the Immunomodulatory Drugs (IMiDs) as well as of (immuno) proteasome inhibitors into MM regimens dramatically improved MM patients outcome  during the last 15 years. Despite these unprecedented therapeutic advances MM remains an incurable disease. OBJECTIVE: This article reviews novel immunotherapeutic approaches, which aim to  restore the balance within the immunologic niche of the MM BM microenvironment. METHOD: A systematic search was conducted of the Pubmed Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Library databases for primary articles, as well as of conference abstracts (e.g., of the American Society of Hematology, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the American Association of Cancer Research, the European Hematology Association, and the Multiple Myeloma Workshop), practice guidelines,  and registries of clinical trials. RESULTS: The inclusion of monoclonal antibodies, immune checkpoint inhibitors, chimeric antigen receptor-engineered (CAR) T cells, genetically engineered T cells, and vaccination, dendritic cellbased cancer vaccines in particular, into existing regimens is likely to significantly improve MM patient outcome in the near future. CONCLUSION: Given continuing efforts to target the immune niche within the bone marrow microenvironment we are confident that the rise of immunotherapies in MM will result in long-lasting responses in many of our patients within the next decade."

"917. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2017;17(5):423-444. doi: 10.2174/1568009617666170109151128.","CD20-based Immunotherapy of B-cell Derived Hematologic Malignancies.","BACKGROUND: CD20 is a surface antigen, which is expressed at certain stages of B-cell differentiation. Targeting the CD20-positive B-cells with therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) has been an effectual strategy in the treatment of hematologic malignancies such as non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Initial success with Rituximab (RTX) has encouraged the creation and development of more effective CD20 based therapeutics. However,  treatment with conventional MAbs has not been adequate to overcome the problems such as refractory/ relapsed disease. In this regard, new generations of MAbs with enhanced affinity or improved anti-tumor properties have been developed. OBJECTIVE: CD20 directed therapeutics have heterogeneous features and mechanisms  of action. Hence, having sufficient knowledge on the immunological and molecular  aspects of CD20 based cancer therapy is necessary for predicting the clinical outcomes and taking the necessary measures. METHOD: An extensive search was performed in PubMed and similar databases for peer-reviewed articles concerning the biology, function and characteristics of CD20 molecule as well as the mechanisms of action and evolutionary process of CD20 targeting agents. RESULTS: This review provides information about the current situation of CD20 targeting immunotherapeutics including MAbs, bispecific antibodies (which exert multiple functions or involve Tcells in tumor elimination) and CAR T-cells (engineered T-cells armed with chimeric antigen receptors). Moreover, limitations, challenges and available solutions regarding the application of CD20 targeting treatments are addressed. CONCLUSION: Utilization of CD20-targeted therapeutics, due to their diverse properties, requires special considerations."

"919. Expert Rev Hematol. 2017 Jan;10(1):29-37. doi: 10.1080/17474086.2017.1270202. Epub 2016 Dec 21.","Diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic role of CD30 in lymphoma.","INTRODUCTION: CD30 is a cell surface receptor expressed in classical Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL), and many other lymphomas to a variable degree. It has been identified as an important therapeutic target in lymphoma. Areas covered: CD30 testing is essential in diagnosis of classical HL and ALCL, and expression can also be seen in other lymphoma subtypes. Development of Brentuximab vedotin (BV), an antibody-drug conjugate directed to CD30, has been an important advance in lymphoma treatment. It is approved in treatment of relapsed HL and ALCL, as well as post-transplant maintenance for HL, and has been shown to be effective in other CD30-expressing lymphomas. This review describes the role of CD30 and the use of CD30-targeted agents in HL, ALCL, and other lymphomas, including review of relevant trials of BV. Expert commentary: Recognition of CD30 expression in lymphoma has led to the development of important therapeutic options. Multiple trials are ongoing combining BV with other agents, such as chemotherapy or immunotherapy, to develop more effective regimens. In addition, treatments targeting CD30 in different ways are being developed, such as bispecific antibodies and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells."

"920. Immunotherapy. 2017 Jan;9(2):123-130. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0127.","Donor origin CAR T cells: graft versus malignancy effect without GVHD, a systematic review.","CD19, CD20 chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy has shown promising results for the treatment of relapsed or refractory hematological malignancies. Best results have been reported in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients with a complete response rate above 80%. Patients who received donor-derived CAR T cells for the relapsed malignancy after stem cell transplantation (allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplant) were identified from the published trials. A  total of 72 patients from seven studies were treated with donor-derived CAR T cells. Only five out of 72 patients (6.9%) developed graft versus host disease. Use of donor-derived CAR T cell for relapse prophylaxis, minimal residual disease clearance or salvage from relapse is therefore highly effective, and risk of graft versus host disease flare is very low. Side effects include cytokine release syndrome, tumor lysis syndrome, B-cell aplasia along with CNS toxicity."

"921. Immunotherapy. 2017 Jan;9(1):33-46. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0103.","Tumor-targeting domains for chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells has been advancing steadily in clinical trials. Since the ability of engineered T cells to recognize intended tumor-associated targets is crucial for the therapeutic success, antigen-binding domains play an important role in shaping T-cell responses. Single-chain antibody and T-cell receptor fragments, natural ligands, repeat proteins, combinations of the above and universal tag-specific domains have all been used in the antigen-binding moiety of chimeric receptors. Here we outline the advantages and disadvantages of different domains, discuss the concepts of affinity and specificity, and highlight the recent progress of each targeting strategy."

"922. J Immunol Res. 2017;2017:6915912. doi: 10.1155/2017/6915912. Epub 2017 Dec 20.","Synergistic Effects of Cabozantinib and EGFR-Specific CAR-NK-92 Cells in Renal Cell Carcinoma.","The chimeric antigen receptor-modified immune effector cell (CAR-T and CAR-NK) therapies are newly developed adoptive treatments of cancers. However, their therapeutic efficacy against solid tumors is limited. Combining CAR-T or CAR-NK cells with chemotherapeutic drugs to treat solid tumor may be a promising strategy. We developed an epidermal growth factor- (EGFR-) specific third-generation CAR. NK-92 cells were modified with the CAR by lentivirus infection. The specific killing ability of the CAR-modified NK-92 cells (CAR-NK-92) against renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell lines was confirmed in vitro. The synergistic effects of cabozantinib and EGFR-specific CAR-NK-92 cells were investigated in vitro and in vivo. Our results showed that the CAR-NK-92 cells lyse RCC cells in an EGFR-specific manner. Treatment with cabozantinib could increase EGFR and decrease PD-L1 membrane surface expression in RCC cells and enhance the killing ability of CAR-NK-92 cells against the RCC cells in vitro. Furthermore, the CAR-NK-92 cells show synergistic therapeutic efficacy with cabozantinib against human RCC xenograft models. Our results provided the basis for combination with chemotherapy as a novel strategy for enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of CAR-modified immune effector cells for solid tumors."

"923. J Immunol Res. 2017;2017:5210459. doi: 10.1155/2017/5210459. Epub 2017 Jan 2.","Genetically Modified T-Cell-Based Adoptive Immunotherapy in Hematological Malignancies.","A significant proportion of hematological malignancies remain limited in treatment options. Immune system modulation serves as a promising therapeutic approach to eliminate malignant cells. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a central role in antitumor immunity; unfortunately, nonspecific approaches for targeted recognition of tumor cells by CTLs to mediate tumor immune evasion in hematological malignancies imply multiple mechanisms, which may or may not be clinically relevant. Recently, genetically modified T-cell-based adoptive immunotherapy approaches, including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy and engineered T-cell receptor (TCR) T-cell therapy, promise to overcome  immune evasion by redirecting the specificity of CTLs to tumor cells. In clinic trials, CAR-T-cell- and TCR-T-cell-based adoptive immunotherapy have produced encouraging clinical outcomes, thereby demonstrating their therapeutic potential  in mitigating tumor development. The purpose of the present review is to (1) provide a detailed overview of the multiple mechanisms for immune evasion related with T-cell-based therapies; (2) provide a current summary of the applications of CAR-T-cell- as well as neoantigen-specific TCR-T-cell-based adoptive immunotherapy and routes taken to overcome immune evasion; and (3) evaluate alternative approaches targeting immune evasion via optimization of CAR-T and TCR-T-cell immunotherapies."

"924. Leukemia. 2017 Jan;31(1):186-194. doi: 10.1038/leu.2016.180. Epub 2016 Jun 24.","Enhanced CAR T-cell engineering using non-viral Sleeping Beauty transposition from minicircle vectors.","Immunotherapy with T cell modified with gamma-retroviral or lentiviral (LV) vectors to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown remarkable efficacy in clinical trials. However, the potential for insertional mutagenesis and genotoxicity of viral vectors is a safety concern, and their cost and regulatory demands a roadblock for rapid and broad clinical translation. Here, we demonstrate that CAR T cells can be engineered through non-viral Sleeping Beauty  (SB) transposition of CAR genes from minimalistic DNA vectors called minicircles  (MCs). We analyzed genomic distribution of SB and LV integrations and show that a significantly higher proportion of MC-derived CAR transposons compared with LV integrants had occurred outside of highly expressed and cancer-related genes into genomic safe harbor loci that are not expected to cause mutagenesis or genotoxicity. CD19-CAR T cells engineered with our enhanced SB approach conferred potent reactivity in vitro and eradicated lymphoma in a xenograft model in vivo.  Intriguingly, electroporation of SB MCs is substantially more effective and less  toxic compared with conventional plasmids, and enables cost-effective rapid preparation of therapeutic CAR T-cell doses. This approach sets a new standard in advanced cellular and gene therapy and will accelerate and increase the availability of CAR T-cell therapy to treat hematologic malignancies."

"925. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1633:267-276. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-7142-8_17.","Generating and Expanding Autologous Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells from Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","Adoptive transfer of genetically engineered T cells can lead to profound and durable responses in patients with hematologic malignancies, generating enormous  enthusiasm among scientists, clinicians, patients, and biotechnology companies. The success of adoptive cellular immunotherapy depends upon the ability to manufacture good quality T cells. We discuss here the methodologies and reagents  that are used to generate T cells for the preclinical study of chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)."

"926. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2017;40(1):68-77. doi: 10.2177/jsci.40.68.","Prospects for personalized combination immunotherapy for solid tumors based on adoptive cell therapies and immune checkpoint blockade therapies.","  Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) and adoptive cell therapies (ACT) with antigen-receptor gene-engineered T cells have been shown to be successful for a limited number of patients with solid tumors. Responders to ICB therapy typically have T cell-inflamed tumors. Thus, it is important to develop strategies that convert non-T cell-inflamed tumors to T cell-inflamed tumors. Although chimeric antigen receptor transduced T (CAR-T) cell therapy targeting hematological malignancies demonstrated durable clinical responses, the success of gene-engineered T cell therapies in solid tumors is hampered by a lack of unique  antigens, antigen loss in cancer cells, and the immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) of solid tumors. However, gene-engineered T cells possess  strong killing activity and cytokine production capacity, which can induce antigen spreading and modulate the TME of non-T cell-inflamed tumors seen in non-responders to ICB therapy. Immune responses against cancer are highly heterogeneous, not only between tumor types, but also within a patient or between different patients with the same type of cancer, indicating that personalized immunotherapy should be employed, based on the immune status of the individual patient. Here, we offer our perspective for personalized combination immunotherapy for solid tumors based on ACT and ICB therapies."

"927. Oncol Res Treat. 2017;40(11):674-681. doi: 10.1159/000481946. Epub 2017 Oct 20.","Cellular Immunotherapy in B-Cell Malignancy.","In recent years, cellular immunotherapy in B-cell malignancies has been driven by adoptive transfer of genetically engineered T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). CARs consist of a single chain variable fragment (scFv) of a monoclonal antibody, a spacer domain, a transmembrane domain, an intracellular signaling domain, and additional costimulatory domains. The bulk of clinical data available is on CD19-targeting CAR T cells for the treatment of B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Results so far have been promising with impressive rates and depth of remission especially among B-ALL patients. However, CAR T-cell therapy is a complex multi-step process, and clinical trials so far differ profoundly in CAR construct used, gene transfer method, composition of the cellular product, lymphodepletion, and CAR T-cell dose used. Randomized trials will be needed to conclusively evaluate the implications of these differences. The treatment concept is associated with significant neurotoxicity and potentially lethal cytokine release syndrome, both of which require specific management. Improvements in CAR design may help to overcome toxicity, the effects of an immunosuppressive microenvironment, and tumor escape by development of antigen-negative clones. This review will explain the mechanism of action, summarize the clinical experience with this treatment modality so far, and explore future developments in the field."

"928. Pharmacotherapy. 2017 Jan;37(1):129-143. doi: 10.1002/phar.1871. Epub 2017 Jan 6.","Role of Immunotherapy in Targeting the Bone Marrow Microenvironment in Multiple Myeloma: An Evolving Therapeutic Strategy.","Multiple myeloma (referred to henceforth as myeloma) is a B-cell malignancy characterized by unregulated growth of plasma cells in the bone marrow. The treatment paradigm for myeloma underwent significant evolution in the last decade, with an improved understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease as well as the development of therapeutic agents that target not only the tumor cells but also their microenvironment. Despite these therapeutic advances, the prognosis of patients with relapsed or refractory myeloma remains poor. Accordingly, a need exists for new therapeutic avenues that can overcome resistance to current therapies and improve survival outcomes. In addition, myeloma is associated with  progressive immune dysregulation, with defects in T-cell immunity, natural killer cell function, and the antigen-presenting capacity of dendritic cells, resulting  in a tumor microenvironment that promotes disease tolerance and progression. Together, the immunosuppressive microenvironment and oncogenic mutations activate signaling networks that promote myeloma cell survival. Immunotherapy incorporates novel treatment options (e.g., monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, immune checkpoint inhibitors, bispecific antibodies, and tumor vaccines) either alone or in combination with existing lines of therapies (e.g., immunomodulatory agents, proteasome inhibitors, and histone deacetylase inhibitors) to enhance the host anti myeloma  immunity within the bone marrow microenvironment and improve clinical response. Following the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of daratumumab and elotuzumab in 2015, more immunotherapeutic agents are expected to be become available as valuable treatment options in the near future. This review provides  a basic understanding of the role of immunotherapy in modulating the bone marrow  tumor microenvironment and its role in the treatment of myeloma. Clinical efficacy and safety of recently approved therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (daratumumab, elotuzumab) are discussed, along with the therapeutic potential of  emerging immunotherapies (antibody-drug conjugates, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, tumor vaccines, and immune checkpoint inhibitors)."

"929. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2017;58(10):1995-2003. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.58.1995.","Treatment of relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Most patients with adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) undergo relapse, despite the achievement of complete remission with chemotherapy. Among patients with relapsed or refractory ALL, remission rates are 18-44% with the use of standard salvage chemotherapy, but the duration of remission is short. A major goal in this population is to induce remission with a sufficient duration to prepare for stem cell transplantation. The poor outcomes and lack of durable responses seen with conventional chemotherapy have led to the development of several novel agents, including clofarabine and nelarabine. Prior to the advent of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, patients with Ph-positive ALL treated with combination chemotherapy regimens were able to achieve high rates of complete response and long survival duration along with subsequent stem cell transplantation. A potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor ponatinib that is active against the T315I mutation is available. Novel monoclonal antibodies have been developed for the treatment of patients with Ph-negative ALL. Among patients with relapsed or refractory ALL, inotuzumab ozogamicin, blinatumomab, and CAR T-cell therapy have shown promising results. Follow-up is needed to further confirm their outcomes and toxicity profiles. Several clinical trials in this field are ongoing because of the lack of an established standard therapy."

"930. BMJ Open. 2016 Dec 30;6(12):e013904. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013904.","Third-generation CD28/4-1BB chimeric antigen receptor T cells for chemotherapy relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: a non-randomised, open-label phase I trial protocol.","INTRODUCTION: There is no curative treatment available for patients with chemotherapy relapsed or refractory CD19+ B cells-derived acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (r/r B-ALL). Although CD19-targeting second-generation (2nd-G) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells carrying CD28 or 4-1BB domains have demonstrated potency in patients with advanced B-ALL, these 2 signalling domains  endow CAR-T cells with different and complementary functional properties. Preclinical results have shown that third-generation (3rd-G) CAR-T cells combining 4-1BB and CD28 signalling domains have superior activation and proliferation capacity compared with 2nd-G CAR-T cells carrying CD28 domain. The  aim of the current study is therefore to investigate the safety and efficacy of 3rd-G CAR-T cells in adults with r/r B-ALL. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study is a phase I clinical trial for patients with r/r B-ALL to test the safety and preliminary efficacy of 3rd-G CAR-T cells. Before receiving lymphodepleting conditioning regimen, the peripheral blood mononuclear cells from eligible patients will be leukapheresed, and the T cells will be purified, activated, transduced and expanded ex vivo. On day 6 in the protocol, a single dose of 1 million CAR-T cells per kg will be administrated intravenously. The phenotypes of infused CAR-T cells, copy number of CAR transgene and plasma cytokines will be assayed for 2 years after CAR-T infusion using flow cytometry, real-time quantitative PCR and cytometric bead array, respectively. Moreover, several predictive plasma cytokines including interferon-γ, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, Soluble Interleukin (sIL)-2R-α, solubleglycoprotein (sgp)130, sIL-6R, Monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP1), Macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP1)-α, MIP1-β and Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), which are highly associated with severe cytokine release syndrome (CRS), will be used to forecast CRS to allow doing earlier intervention, and CRS will be managed based on a revised CRS grading system. In addition, patients with grade 3 or 4 neurotoxicities or persistent B-cell aplasia will be treated with dexamethasone (10 mg intravenously every 6 hours) or IgG, respectively. Descriptive and analytical analyses will be performed. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval for the study was granted on 10 July 2014 (YLJS-2014-7-10). Written informed consent will be taken from all participants. The results of the study will be reported, through peer-reviewed journals, conference presentations and an internal organisational report. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02186860."

"932. Front Immunol. 2016 Dec 26;7:648. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00648. eCollection 2016.","T Cell Maturation Stage Prior to and During GMP Processing Informs on CAR T Cell  Expansion in Patients.","Autologous T cells were genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) directed toward carboxy-anhydrase-IX (CAIX) and used to treat patients with CAIX-positive metastatic renal cell carcinoma. In this study, we questioned whether the T cell maturation stage in the pre-infusion product affected CAIX CAR expression and function in vitro as well as in vivo CAR T cell  numbers and expansion. During the 14 days expansion of CAR T cells prior to administration, we observed shifts from a predominant CD4 to a CD8 T cell phenotype and from a significant fraction of naïve to central effector T cells. Surface expression of the CAR was equally distributed among different T cell subsets and T cell maturation stages. During T cell culture days 14-18 (which covered patient treatment days 1-5), T cells demonstrated a decline in CAR expression level per cell irrespective of T cell maturation stage, although the proportion of CAR-positive T cells and CAR-mediated T cell effector functions remained similar for both CD4 and CD8 T cell populations. Notably, patients with  a higher fraction of naïve CD8 T cells at baseline (prior to genetic modification) or central effector CD8 T cells at 2 weeks of CAR T cell culture demonstrated a higher fold expansion and absolute numbers of circulating CAR T cells at 1 month after start of therapy. We conclude that the T cell maturation stage prior to and during CAR T cell expansion culture is related to in vivo CAR  T cell expansion."

"933. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Dec 23;6(2):e1273302. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1273302. eCollection 2017.","CAR T-cell intrinsic PD-1 checkpoint blockade: A two-in-one approach for solid tumor immunotherapy.","PD-L1/2 expression in solid tumors inhibits chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell efficacy. A PD-1 dominant negative receptor expressed in CAR T cells provides cell-intrinsic checkpoint blockade and augments antitumor efficacy. A combinatorial immunotherapeutic strategy of combining CAR T cells with checkpoint blockade is a promising treatment approach for solid tumors."

"934. J Immunol. 2016 Dec 15;197(12):4674-4685. Epub 2016 Nov 14.","Mechanisms of Acute Toxicity in NKG2D Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell-Treated Mice.","Targeting cancer through the use of effector T cells bearing chimeric Ag receptors (CARs) leads to elimination of tumors in animals and patients, but recognition of normal cells or excessive activation can result in significant toxicity and even death. CAR T cells based on modified NKG2D receptors are effective against many types of tumors, and their efficacy is mediated through direct cytotoxicity and cytokine production. Under certain conditions, their ligands can be expressed on nontumor cells, so a better understanding of the potential off-tumor activity of these NKG2D CAR T cells is needed. Injection of very high numbers of activated T cells expressing CARs based on murine NKG2D or DNAM1 resulted in increased serum cytokines (IFN-γ, IL-6, and MCP-1) and acute toxicity similar to cytokine release syndrome. Acute toxicity required two key effector molecules in CAR T cells-perforin and GM-CSF. Host immune cells also contributed to this toxicity, and mice with severe immune cell defects remained healthy at the highest CAR T cell dose. These data demonstrate that specific CAR  T cell effector mechanisms and the host immune system are required for this cytokine release-like syndrome in murine models."

"935. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2016 Dec 14;4:41-54. doi: 10.1016/j.omto.2016.11.005. eCollection 2017 Mar 17.","Enhancement of PSMA-Directed CAR Adoptive Immunotherapy by PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in hematologic malignancies has shown remarkable responses, but the same level of success has not been observed in solid tumors. A new prostate cancer model (Myc-CaP:PSMA(+)) and a second-generation anti-hPSMA human CAR T cells expressing a Click Beetle Red luciferase reporter) were used to study hPSMA targeting and assess CAR T cell trafficking and persistence by bioluminescence imaging (BLI). We investigated the antitumor efficacy of human CAR T cells targeting human prostate-specific membrane antigen (hPSMA), in the presence and absence of the target antigen; first alone and then combined with a monoclonal antibody targeting the human programmed death receptor 1 (anti-hPD1 mAb). PDL-1 expression was detected in Myc-CaP murine prostate tumors growing in immune competent FVB/N and immune-deficient SCID mice. Endogenous CD3+ T cells were restricted from the centers of Myc-CaP tumor nodules growing in FVB/N mice. Following anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) treatment, the restriction of CD3+ T cells was reversed, and a tumor-treatment response was observed. Adoptive hPSMA-CAR T cell  immunotherapy was enhanced when combined with PD-1 blockade, but the treatment response was of comparatively short duration, suggesting other immune modulation  mechanisms exist and restrict CAR T cell targeting, function, and persistence in  hPSMA expressing Myc-CaP tumors. Interestingly, an inverse pattern of CAR T cell BLI intensity was observed in control and test tumors, which suggests CAR  T cells undergo changes leading to a loss of signal and/or number following hPSMA-specific activation. The lower BLI signal intensity in the hPSMA test tumors (compared with controls) is due in part to a decrease in T cell mitochondrial function following T cell activation, which may limit the intensity of the ATP-dependent Luciferin-luciferase bioluminescence signal."

"936. Clin Transl Immunology. 2016 Dec 9;5(12):e116. doi: 10.1038/cti.2016.73. eCollection 2016 Dec.","All-trans retinoic acid enhances cytotoxic effect of T cells with an anti-CD38 chimeric antigen receptor in acute myeloid leukemia.","We reported that T cells with anti-CD38-chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) eliminated B-cell lymphoma cells expressing CD38. To employ anti-CD38-CAR against acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts not expressing CD38, it is necessary to induce or increase the intensity of CD38 expression. A lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)-releasing assay and flow cytometry showed that anti-CD38-CAR T cells were cytotoxic against AML lines (THP-1 and CMK) expressing high CD38 levels (>99%), in time- and number of effector-dependent manners. In other AML lines (KG1, U937  and HL60) partially expressing CD38, CD38+ AML cells were killed by CD38-specific T cells, but CD38- AML cells remained survived. Intriguingly, 10 nM all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) augmented CD38 expression in KG1, U937 and HL60 cells and primary leukemic cells from AML patients. Moreover, the withdrawal of ATRA from the medium decreased CD38 expression in AML cells. Killing effects of anti-CD38-CAR T cells against AML lines and AML cells were limited without ATRA,  whereas CD38-specific T cells enhanced cytotoxicity on AML cells by ATRA in association with enhanced CD38 expression. These results indicate that anti-CD38-CAR T cells eliminate AML cells through CD38 expression induced by ATRA."

"937. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2016 Dec 2;2016(1):567-572.","Cytokine release syndrome with novel therapeutics for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","T-cell-engaging immunotherapies are exciting new approaches to treat patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). These unique agents, which include blinatumomab, a CD3/CD19 bispecific antibody, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells targeted to CD19 have shown unprecedented remission rates in the relapsed, refractory ALL setting. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS), resulting from the high magnitude of immune activation by these therapies, is the most significant treatment-related toxicity. CRS manifests with fever and malaise and  can progress to life-threatening capillary leak with hypoxia and hypotension. The clinical signs of CRS correlate with T-cell activation and high levels of cytokines, including interleukin 6 (IL-6). Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor antagonist, is usually effective in the management of severe CRS induced by CAR T cells and has been adopted by most clinical trial programs. With blinatumomab administration, the goal has been to prevent CRS with corticosteroid premedication, disease cytoreduction, and dose adjustments. Collaborative efforts are underway to harmonize the definition and grading system of CRS to allow for better interpretation of toxicities across trials and allow for informed management algorithms."

"938. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2016 Dec;29(4):329-333. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2016.10.004. Epub 2016 Oct 18.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in AML: How close are we?","The majority of patients presenting with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) initially respond to chemotherapy but post-remission therapy is required to consolidate this response and achieve long-term disease-free survival. The most effective form of post-remission therapy relies on T cell immunotherapy in the form of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). However, patients with active disease cannot usually expect to be cured with HCT. This inherent dichotomy implies that traditional T cell-based immunotherapy in the form of allogeneic HCT stops being efficacious somewhere between the measurable residual  disease (MRD) and the morphologically obvious range. This is in part because the  full power of T cells must be restrained in order to avoid lethal graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and partly because only a sub-population of donor T cells are expected to be able to recognize AML cells via their T cell receptor. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, most advanced in the treatment of patients with B-cell malignancies, may circumvent some of these limitations. However, major challenges remain to be overcome before CAR T cell therapy can be safely applied to AML."

"939. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2016 Dec;65(12):1433-1450. Epub 2016 Sep 9.","The growing world of CAR T cell trials: a systematic review.","In recent years, cancer treatment involving adoptive cell therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified patients immune cells has attracted growing interest. Using gene transfer techniques, the patients T cells are modified ex vivo with a CAR which redirects the T cells toward the cancer cells through an antibody-derived binding domain. The T cells are activated by the CAR primary signaling and costimulatory domains. Such second generation CAR T cells induced complete remission of B cell malignancies in the long-term. In this fast-moving field with a growing number of engineered T cell products, we list about 100 currently ongoing trials here that involve CAR T cells targeting hematopoietic malignancies and solid cancer. Major challenges in the further development of the therapy are briefly discussed."

"940. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016 Dec;16(12):1469-1478. Epub 2016 Sep 19.","From therapeutic antibodies to chimeric antigen receptors (CARs): making better CARs based on antigen-binding domain.","INTRODUCTION: A variety of approaches are being pursued to improve the safety and antitumor potency of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. However, most engineering efforts have thus far been focused on its intracellular signaling domain, while its extracellular antigen-binding domain has received less attention. Areas covered: Herein, the authors summarize the current knowledge of CAR T-cell therapy. Accordingly, they focus on its antigen-binding domain, discuss key considerations for selecting an optimal single-chain variable fragment (scFv) when designing a CAR, and suggest potential directions aimed at developing the next-generation CARs. Expert opinion: The extracellular region of  CARs can play a decisive role in their safety and efficacy. Instead of directly translating an available therapeutic mAb to a scFv-based CAR construct, the authors suggest that various CAR-displayed scFvs with different affinity, specificity and binding epitopes against an individual target molecule should be  generated and evaluated side-by-side. Incorporating new antibody formats that possess characteristics superior to those of scFvs may be one way to engineer safer and more effective CARs. The authors expect that further CAR engineering will enable us to target more antigens involved in hematological and solid malignancies with minimal side effects to serve unmet clinical needs."

"941. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2016 Dec;27(6):209-218.","A Rapid Cell Expansion Process for Production of Engineered Autologous CAR-T Cell Therapies."," The treatment of B-cell malignancies by adoptive cell transfer (ACT) of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CD19 CAR-T) has proven to be a highly successful therapeutic modality in several clinical trials.1-6 The anti-CD19 CAR-T cell production method used to support initial trials relied on numerous manual, open process steps, human serum, and 10 days of cell culture to achieve a clinical dose.7 This approach limited the ability to support large multicenter clinical trials, as well as scale up for commercial cell production. Therefore, studies were completed to streamline and optimize the original National Cancer Institute production process by removing human serum from the process in order to minimize the risk of viral contamination, moving process steps from an open system to functionally closed system operations in order to minimize the risk of  microbial contamination, and standardizing additional process steps in order to maximize process consistency. This study reports a procedure for generating CD19  CAR-T cells in 6 days, using a functionally closed manufacturing process and defined, serum-free medium. This method is able to produce CD19 CAR-T cells that  are phenotypically and functionally indistinguishable from cells produced for clinical trials by the previously described production process."

"942. Immunotherapy. 2016 Dec;8(12):1355-1361. doi: 10.2217/imt-2016-0125.","Prospects to improve chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for solid tumors.","Adoptive transfer of patient-derived T-cells engineered with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting the pan-B-cell marker CD19 has led to complete remission in patients with B-cell leukemias while response rates are more modest for B-cell lymphomas. This can be attributed to the fact that the semi-solid structure of lymphomas impedes T-cell infiltration and that the immune suppressive microenvironment within these tumors dampens the effect of CAR T-cells. These obstacles are even more pronounced for solid tumors where dense and often highly  immunosuppressive structures are found. This article focuses on different aspects of how to improve CAR T-cells for solid tumors, primarily by decreasing their sensitivity to the harsh tumor microenvironment, by altering the immunosuppressive microenvironment inside tumors and by inducing bystander immunity."

"943. J Leukoc Biol. 2016 Dec;100(6):1255-1264. Epub 2016 Oct 27.","At the Bench: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for the treatment of B cell malignancies.","The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) represents the epitome of cellular engineering and is one of the best examples of rational biologic design of a synthetic molecule. The CAR is a single polypeptide with modular domains, consisting of an antibody-derived targeting moiety, fused in line with T cell-derived signaling domains, allowing for T cell activation upon ligand binding. T cells expressing a CAR are able to eradicate selectively antigen-expressing tumor cells in a MHC-independent fashion. CD19, a tumor-associated antigen (TAA) present on normal B cells, as well as most B cell-derived malignancies, was an early target of this technology. Through years  of experimental refinement and preclinical optimization, autologously derived CD19-targeting CAR T cells have been successfully, clinically deployed, resulting in dramatic and durable antitumor responses but not without therapy-associated toxicity. As CD19-targeted CAR T cells continue to show clinical success, work at the bench continues to be undertaken to increase further the efficacy of this therapy, while simultaneously minimizing the risk for treatment-related morbidities. In this review, we cover the history and evolution of CAR technology and its adaptation to targeting CD19. Furthermore, we discuss the future of CAR T cell therapy and the need to ask, as well as answer, critical questions as this treatment modality is being translated to the clinic."

"944. J Leukoc Biol. 2016 Dec;100(6):1265-1272. Epub 2016 Jun 27.","At The Bedside: Clinical review of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for B cell malignancies.","T cells kill microbial-infected and malignant cells by detection of nonself antigens with the TCR. Tumor reactivity can be encoded genetically by introducing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) into T cells. CARs are composed of an antigen-binding domain and an intracellular T cell activation domain. Early human trials evaluating CD19-targeted CAR T cells for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) showed limited responses until CARs included a costimulation domain, and conditioning chemotherapy was given before T cell infusion. Clinical trials evaluating CD19-targeted CAR T cells for B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) are demonstrating response rates up to 90%. However, these clinical outcomes are associated with a cytokine release syndrome (CRS), which is caused by T cell activation and manifests as high-grade fever, hypotension, and other cardiovascular complications. It is currently managed conservatively but can be treated with cytokine-directed therapy or with high-dose steroids. Current efforts are dedicated to confirming the clinical efficacy and managing toxicities in multicenter Phase II trials. We present a thorough overview of the preclinical and clinical development of CAR T cell therapy that will highlight important areas for the basic researcher to investigate in the laboratory and contribute to this exciting field."

"945. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(51):e5676. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005676.","Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for adult Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia: Two case reports.","RATIONALE: The presence of the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has been associated with a high risk of disease relapse and a poor prognosis. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation  (HSCT) is an established treatment for adults with Ph-positive ALL, but relapse remains the primary cause of treatment failure, and is associated with an extremely poor prognosis. The emergence of resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) poses a challenge for patients with disease relapses after initial treatment with TKI-containing regimens. PATIENT CONCERNS: Two patients with TKI-resistant recurrent Ph-positive ALL. DIAGNOSES: Ph-positive ALL. INTERVENTIONS: Anti-CD19 CAR T-cell infusion. OUTCOMES: One patients bone marrow blasts decreased significantly, and the other reached negative minimal residual disease (MRD). However, we first recorded the development of new-onset acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) after anti-CD19  CAR T-cell infusion in a patient who received allogeneic HSCT. Our 2 case reports also demonstrate the efficacy of anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy in the treatment of TKI-resistant Ph-positive ALL. LESSONS: Our report suggests that anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy may be a promising option for the treatment of relapsed Ph-positive ALL after conventional chemotherapy or allogeneic HSCT. However, caution is due given the possibility of the adverse effects of cytokine release syndrome (CRS)-induced aGVHD for patients receiving allogeneic HSCT."

"946. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 1;11(12):e0166891. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166891. eCollection 2016.","In Vitro Pre-Clinical Validation of Suicide Gene Modified Anti-CD33 Redirected Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cells for Acute Myeloid Leukemia."," BACKGROUND: Approximately fifty percent of patients with acute myeloid leukemia can be cured with current therapeutic strategies which include, standard dose chemotherapy for patients at standard risk of relapse as assessed by cytogenetic  and molecular analysis, or high-dose chemotherapy with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant for high-risk patients. Despite allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant about 25% of patients still succumb to disease relapse, therefore, novel strategies are needed to improve the outcome of patients with acute myeloid leukemia. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed an immunotherapeutic strategy targeting the CD33 myeloid antigen, expressed in ~ 85-90% of patients with acute myeloid leukemia, using chimeric antigen receptor redirected T-cells. Considering that administration of CAR T-cells has been associated with cytokine release syndrome  and other potential off-tumor effects in patients, safety measures were here investigated and reported. We genetically modified human activated T-cells from healthy donors or patients with acute myeloid leukemia with retroviral supernatant encoding the inducible Caspase9 suicide gene, a ΔCD19 selectable marker, and a humanized third generation chimeric antigen receptor recognizing human CD33. ΔCD19 selected inducible Caspase9-CAR.CD33 T-cells had a 75±3.8% (average ± standard error of the mean) chimeric antigen receptor expression, were able to specifically lyse CD33+ targets in vitro, including freshly isolated leukemic blasts from patients, produce significant amount of tumor-necrosis-factor-alpha and interferon-gamma, express the CD107a degranulation marker, and proliferate upon antigen specific stimulation. Challenging ΔCD19 selected inducible Caspase9-CAR.CD33 T-cells with programmed-death-ligand-1 enriched leukemia blasts resulted in significant killing like observed for the programmed-death-ligand-1 negative leukemic blasts  fraction. Since the administration of 10 nanomolar of a non-therapeutic dimerizer to activate the suicide gene resulted in the elimination of only 76.4±2.0% gene modified cells in vitro, we found that co-administration of the dimerizer with either the BCL-2 inhibitor ABT-199, the pan-BCL inhibitor ABT-737, or mafosfamide, resulted in an additive effect up to complete cell elimination. CONCLUSIONS: This strategy could be investigated for the safety of CAR T-cell applications, and targeting CD33 could be used as a bridge therapy for patients coming to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant, as anti-leukemia activity from infusing CAR.CD33 T-cells has been demonstrated in an ongoing clinical trial. Albeit never performed in the clinical setting, our future plan is to investigate the utility of iC9-CAR.CD33 T-cells as part of the conditioning therapy for an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant for acute myeloid leukemia, together with other myelosuppressive agents, whilst the activation of the inducible Caspase9 suicide gene would grant elimination of the infused gene modified T-cells prior to stem cell infusion to reduce the risk of engraftment failure as the CD33 is also expressed on a proportion of the donor stem cell graft."

"949. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Nov 25;9(1):131.","Co-infusion of haplo-identical CD19-chimeric antigen receptor T cells and stem cells achieved full donor engraftment in refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Elderly patients with relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have poor prognosis. Autologous CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells have potentials to cure patients with B cell ALL; however, safety and efficacy of allogeneic CD19 CAR-T cells are still undetermined. CASE PRESENTATION: We treated a 71-year-old female with relapsed and refractory ALL who received co-infusion of haplo-identical donor-derived CD19-directed CAR-T cells and mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) following induction chemotherapy. Undetectable minimal residual disease by flow cytometry was achieved, and full donor cell engraftment was established. The transient release  of cytokines and mild fever were detected. Significantly elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase, alanine transaminase, bilirubin and glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase were observed from days 14 to 18, all of which were reversible after immunosuppressive therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary results suggest that co-infusion of haplo-identical  donor-derived CAR-T cells and mobilized PBSCs may induce full donor engraftment in relapsed and refractory ALL including elderly patients, but complications related to donor cell infusions should still be cautioned. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Allogeneic CART-19 for Elderly Relapsed/Refractory CD19+ ALL. NCT02799550."

"950. Cancers (Basel). 2016 Nov 24;8(12). pii: E106.","Advances in Cancer Immunotherapy in Solid Tumors.","Immunotherapy is heralded as one of the most important advances in oncology. Until recently, only limited immunotherapeutic options were available in selected immunogenic cancers like melanoma and renal cell carcinomas. Nowadays, there is an improved understanding that anti-tumor immunity is controlled by a delicate balance in the tumor microenvironment between immune stimulatory and immune inhibitory pathways. Either by blocking the inhibitory pathways or stimulating the activating pathways that regulate cytotoxic lymphocytes, anti-tumor immunity  can be enhanced leading to durable anti-tumor responses. Drugs which block the immune regulatory checkpoints namely the PD-1/PDL1 and CTLA 4 pathway have shown  tremendous promise in a wide spectrum of solid and hematological malignancies, significantly improving overall survival in newly diagnosed and heavily pretreated patients alike. Hence there is renewed enthusiasm in the field of immune oncology with current research focused on augmenting responses to checkpoint inhibitors by combination therapy as well as studies looking at other  immune modulators and adoptive T cell therapy. In this article, we highlight the  key clinical advances and concepts in immunotherapy with particular emphasis on checkpoint inhibition as well as the future direction in this field."

"951. JCI Insight. 2016 Nov 17;1(19):e90064. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.90064.","Longitudinal PET imaging demonstrates biphasic CAR T cell responses in survivors.","Clinical monitoring of adoptive T cell transfer (ACT) utilizes serial blood analyses to discern T cell activity. While useful, these data are 1-dimensional and lack spatiotemporal information related to treatment efficacy or toxicity. We utilized a human genetic reporter, somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2), and PET, to quantitatively and longitudinally visualize whole-body T cell distribution and antitumor dynamics using a clinically approved radiotracer. Initial evaluations determined that SSTR2-expressing T cells were detectable at low densities with high sensitivity and specificity. SSTR2-based PET was applied to ACT of chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting intercellular adhesion molecule-1, which is overexpressed in anaplastic thyroid tumors. Timely CAR T cell infusions resulted in survival of tumor-bearing mice, while later infusions led to uniform  death. Real-time PET imaging revealed biphasic T cell expansion and contraction at tumor sites among survivors, with peak tumor burden preceding peak T cell burden by several days. In contrast, nonsurvivors displayed unrelenting increases in tumor and T cell burden, indicating that tumor growth was outpacing T cell killing. Thus, longitudinal PET imaging of SSTR2-positive ACT dynamics enables prognostic, spatiotemporal monitoring with unprecedented clarity and detail to facilitate comprehensive therapy evaluation with potential for clinical translation."

"952. Immunity. 2016 Nov 15;45(5):947-948. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2016.10.015.","Distinguishing Truncated and Normal MUC1 Glycoform Targeting from Tn-MUC1-Specific CAR T Cells: Specificity Is the Key to Safety.","Genetically modified T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) demonstrate potent clinical antitumor effects in a variety of blood cancers. However, clinical activity in solid tumors has been disappointing and toxicity has been a serious concern (Lamers et al., 2013; Morgan et al., 2010). We recently found that a CAR composed of a scFv antibody fragment specific for the Tn-glycoform of MUC1 had potent activity in preclinical models of blood cancer and adenocarcinoma (Posey et al., 2016)."

"953. Immunity. 2016 Nov 15;45(5):945-946. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2016.10.014.","Targeting of Tumor-Associated Glycoforms of MUC1 with CAR T Cells.","We read with interest the manuscript by June and colleagues published recently in Immunity in which they describe targeting of aberrantly glycosylated tumor-associated cell membrane mucin MUC1 using chimeric antigen receptor-engineered human T cells (Posey et al., 2016). In that study, the authors used a second generation 4-1BB costimulatory-molecule-based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) (Imai et al., 2004) in which targeting was achieved using  a single-chain variable fragment (scFv) derived from the 5E5 antibody. This CAR selectively binds MUC1 that carries the Tn or sialyl (S)Tn glycan. Both of these  truncated glycans are aberrantly expressed on the MUC1 glycoprotein in a spectrum of malignancies and consequently represent attractive targets for immunotherapeutic exploitation."

"954. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Nov 8;5(12):e1253656. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1253656. eCollection 2016.","Fine-tuning the CAR spacer improves T-cell potency.","The adoptive transfer of genetically engineered T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has emerged as a transformative cancer therapy with curative potential, precipitating a wave of preclinical and clinical studies in academic centers and the private sector. Indeed, significant effort has been devoted to improving clinical benefit by incorporating accessory genes/CAR endodomains designed to enhance cellular migration, promote in vivo expansion/persistence or enhance safety by genetic programming to enable the recognition of a tumor signature. However, our efforts centered on exploring whether CAR T-cell potency could be enhanced by modifying pre-existing CAR components. We now demonstrate how molecular refinements to the CAR spacer can impact multiple biological processes including tonic signaling, cell aging, tumor localization, and antigen recognition, culminating in superior in vivo antitumor  activity."

"955. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2016 Nov;62:49-63. doi: 10.1016/j.bcmd.2016.11.001. Epub 2016 Nov 10.","Adoptive immunotherapy for hematological malignancies: Current status and new insights in chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Hematological malignancies frequently express cancer-associated antigens that are shared with normal cells. Such tumor cells elude the host immune system because several T cells targeted against self-antigens are removed during thymic development, and those that persist are eliminated by a regulatory population of  T cells. Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-Ts) have emerged as a novel modality for tumor immunotherapy due to their powerful efficacy against tumor cells. These cells are created by transducing genes-coding fusion proteins  of tumor antigen-recognition single-chain Fv connected to the intracellular signaling domains of T cell receptors, and are classed as first-, second- and third-generation, differing on the intracellular signaling domain number of T cell receptors. CAR-T treatment has emerged as a promising approach for patients  with hematological malignancies, and there are several works reporting clinical trials of the use of CAR-modified T-cells in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphoblastic leukemia, multiple myeloma, lymphoma, and in acute myeloid  leukemia by targeting different antigens. This review reports the history of adoptive immunotherapy using CAR-Ts, the CAR-T manufacturing process, and T cell  therapies in development for hematological malignancies."

"956. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2016 Nov;51(11):1423-1430. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2016.160. Epub 2016 Jun 20.","Life after transplant: are we becoming high maintenance in AML?","Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) for patients with AML is increasingly able to impact the historically poor outcomes in this disease. Nonetheless, even with transplant, the rates of post-HCT relapse are unacceptably high, and remain a great challenge in the treatment of patients with AML. Maintenance therapies after allo-HCT, given to patients at high risk of relapse or with evidence of minimal residual disease (MRD), may provide a way to reduce relapse rates and improve survival. New therapies may offer acceptable toxicity profiles in the post-HCT setting, and investigations are ongoing using hypomethylating agents, histone deacetylase inhibitors, immunomodulatory drugs, targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors, drug-antibody conjugates and cellular therapies. Future directions in the field of post-HCT therapies may include better risk stratification with MRD, as well as the exploitation of novel mechanisms such as immune checkpoint inhibition and modified chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. In this mini review, we discuss the current landscape of  clinical research in post-HCT maintenance therapies, as well as future therapeutic strategies of interest. Although there is great potential for post-HCT agents to improve AML outcomes, these will need to be evaluated prospectively through well-designed randomized clinical trials."

"957. Cancer Gene Ther. 2016 Nov;23(11):373-381. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2016.49. Epub 2016 Nov 11.","Intraperitoneal immunotherapy: historical perspectives and modern therapy.","Intraperitoneal immunotherapy represents a novel strategy for the management of peritoneal metastases (PM). Cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) has remained the gold standard of treatment  for patients with PM, yet despite optimal treatment, recurrence rates remain high and long-term survival poor. From Coleys toxins to immune checkpoint inhibitors, the wide variety of anticancer immunotherapeutic strategies are now garnering attention for control of regional disease of the peritoneal cavity. Early studies with vaccine-based therapies, adoptive cell transfer, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and chimeric T cells with tumor-specific antigen receptors (CAR-T cells) are being performed, showing promise for control of peritoneal spread and  induction of lasting anticancer immunity. In addition, catumaxomab, a trifunctional antibody, has been approved for intraperitoneal immunotherapy in Europe for the control of malignant ascites in patients with epithelial cell adhesion molecule positive cancers. We review a brief history of immunotherapy and current modalities under investigation for intraperitoneal use in the treatment of PM."

"958. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2016 Nov;107:100-110. doi: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2016.09.002. Epub 2016 Sep 9.","Migration of dendritic cells to the lymph nodes and its enhancement to drive anti-tumor responses.","Better prognoses associated with increased T cell infiltration of tumors, as seen with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies and immune checkpoint inhibitors, portray the importance and potential of the immune system in controlling tumors. This has rejuvenated the field of cancer immunotherapy leading to an increasing number of immunotherapies developed for cancer patients. Dendritic Cells (DCs) vaccines represent an appealing option for cancer immunotherapy since DCs have the ability to circumvent tolerance to tumors by its adjuvant properties and to induce memory T cells that can become persistent after initial tumor clearance to engage potential metastatic tumors. In the past, DC-based cancer vaccines have elicited only poor clinical response in cancer patients, which can be attributed to complex and a multitude of issues associated with generation, implementing, delivery of DC vaccine and their potential interaction with effector cells. The current review mainly focuses on migration/trafficking of DCs, as one of the key issues that affect the success of DC-based cancer vaccines, and discusses strategies to enhance it for cancer immunotherapy. Additionally, impact of maturation, route of DC delivery and negative effects of tumor microenvironment (TME) on DC homing to LN are reviewed. Moreover, strategies to increase the expression of genes involved in Lymph node homing, preconditioning of the vaccination site, enhancing lymph node ability to  attract and receive DCs, while limiting negative impact of TME on DC migration are discussed."

"959. Cytotherapy. 2016 Nov;18(11):1382-1392. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.07.004. Epub 2016 Sep 2.","Realism and pragmatism in developing an effective chimeric antigen receptor T-cell product for solid cancers.","Over the last two decades, harnessing the power of the immune system has shown substantial promise. Specifically, the successes that chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells achieved in the treatment of hematologic malignancies provided a concrete platform for further development in solid tumors. Considering that the latter contribute more than three quarters of cancer-related deaths in humans makes it clear that solid tumors represent the larger medical challenge, but also the larger developmental promise in the market. In solid tumors though, the more  is achieved the more challenges are unveiled. The mere fact that engineered T cells are personalized therapies rather than a mass product has been a main constraint for clinical outspread. Further, the complexity of the hostile solid tumor microenvironment, antigenic diversity and dynamicity and the presence of a  tenacious stem cell population rendered the effective development to the clinic questionable. In this article we shed light on the importance of a realistic understanding of challenges faced in solid tumors and some very innovative efforts to overcome these challenges in a manner that paves a pragmatic yet realistic road toward effective development at the discovery level and beyond."

"960. Cytotherapy. 2016 Nov;18(11):1393-1409. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.07.003. Epub 2016 Aug 31.","Review: Current clinical applications of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells.","The past several years have been marked by extraordinary advances in clinical applications of immunotherapy. In particular, adoptive cellular therapy utilizing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells targeted to CD19 has demonstrated substantial clinical efficacy in children and adults with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and durable clinical benefit in a smaller subset of patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). Early-phase clinical trials are currently assessing CAR T-cell safety and efficacy in additional malignancies. Here, we discuss clinical results from the largest series to date investigating CD19-targeted CAR T cells in B-ALL, CLL, and B-NHL,  including discussion of differences in CAR T-cell design and production and treatment approach, as well as clinical efficacy, nature of severe cytokine release syndrome and neurologic toxicities, and CAR T-cell expansion and persistence. We additionally review the current and forthcoming use of CAR T cells in multiple myeloma and several solid tumors and highlight challenges and opportunities afforded by the current state of CAR T-cell therapies, including strategies to overcome inhibitory aspects of the tumor microenvironment and enhance antitumor efficacy."

"961. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016 Nov;12(11):2790-2796. Epub 2016 Jun 20.","TriKEs and BiKEs join CARs on the cancer immunotherapy highway.","Unprecedented clinical success has recently been achieved in cancer immunotherapy using cytotoxic T cells armed with activating tumor-specific Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CARs). Natural killer (NK) cells, potent cytotoxic effectors, also hold potential to be effectively harnessed for immunotherapy. The anti-tumor efficacy of NK cell therapies has been limited by a lack of antigen specificity and the poor persistence of NK cells in vivo. To address these limitations, Vallera and colleagues developed novel Trispecific Killer cell Engagers (TriKEs), reported in the Feb. 2016 issue of Clinical Cancer Research. 1 The novel TriKE immunomodulator evolved from the Bispecific Killer cell Engager (BiKE), a precursor developed by the same team. BiKEs comprise 2 antibody fragments, a first recognizing a tumor antigen and a second directed against CD16 on NK cells, which together trigger antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. IL-15 was further integrated to create TriKEs in order to drive NK cell expansion. Compared to BiKEs, TriKEs elicit far superior NK cytotoxicity and NK cell persistence in a xenograft tumor model in vivo, and are proposed to be effective adjuncts to existing NK transfer protocols. Importantly, TriKEs provide a versatile and cost-effective platform onto which novel targeting ligands can be incorporated and hold the potential to stimulate endogenous NK cells in order to circumvent the need for cell transfers altogether, heralding a new generation of immunotherapeutics."

"962. Mol Ther. 2016 Nov;24(11):1987-1999. doi: 10.1038/mt.2016.149. Epub 2016 Jul 21.","Tumor Regression and Delayed Onset Toxicity Following B7-H4 CAR T Cell Therapy.","B7-H4 protein is frequently overexpressed in ovarian cancer. Here, we engineered  T cells with novel B7-H4-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that recognized both human and murine B7-H4 to test the hypothesis that B7-H4 CAR T cell therapy can be applied safely in preclinical models. B7-H4 CAR T cells specifically secreted IFN-γ and lysed B7-H4(+) targets. In vivo, B7-H4 CAR T cells displayed antitumor reactivity against B7-H4(+) human ovarian tumor xenografts. Unexpectedly, B7-H4 CAR T cell treatment reproducibly showed delayed, lethal toxicity 6-8 weeks after therapy. Comprehensive assessment of murine B7-H4 protein distribution uncovered expression in ductal and mucosal epithelial cells  in normal tissues. Postmortem analysis revealed the presence of widespread histologic lesions that correlated with B7-H4(+) expression, and were inconsistent with graft versus host disease. Lastly, expression patterns of B7-H4 protein in normal human tissue were comparable to distribution in mice, advancing our understanding of B7-H4. We conclude that B7-H4 CAR therapy mediates control of cancer outgrowth. However, long-term engraftment of B7-H4 CAR T cells mediates lethal, off-tumor toxicity that is likely due to wide expression of B7-H4 in healthy mouse organs. This model system provides a unique opportunity for preclinical evaluation of safety approaches that limit CAR-mediated toxicity after tumor destruction in vivo."

"963. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Oct 28;5(12):e1251539. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1251539. eCollection 2016.","CAR-T cell therapy in gastrointestinal tumors and hepatic carcinoma: From bench to bedside.","The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a genetically engineered receptor that combines a scFv domain, which specifically recognizes the tumor-specific antigen, with T cell activation domains. CAR-T cell therapies have demonstrated tremendous efficacy against hematologic malignancies in many clinical trials. Recent studies have extended these efforts to the treatment of solid tumors. However, the outcomes of CAR-T cell therapy for solid tumors are not as remarkable as the outcomes have been for hematologic malignancies. A series of hurdles has arisen with respect to CAR-T cell-based immunotherapy, which needs to be overcome to target solid tumors. The major challenge for CAR-T cell therapy in solid tumors is the selection of the appropriate specific antigen to demarcate the tumor from  normal tissue. In this review, we discuss the application of CAR-T cells to gastrointestinal and hepatic carcinomas in preclinical and clinical research. Furthermore, we analyze the usefulness of several specific markers in the study of gastrointestinal tumors and hepatic carcinoma."

"964. Oncology (Williston Park). 2016 Oct 15;30(10):880-8, 890.","The Promise of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are engineered molecules that can be introduced into T cells to enable them to target specific tumor antigens. CAR T cells targeting CD19 have shown promise in patients with relapsed and refractory B-cell neoplasms, including those with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Notably, durable responses have been observed in patients who had not undergone consolidative stem cell transplant, a  finding that correlates with reports of T-cell persistence and B-cell aplasia in  studies of anti-CD19 treatment in vivo. Cytokine release syndrome, correlating with activation and expansion of T cells, and neurologic toxicity are the most significant treatment-related adverse effects. Efforts are underway to extend the benefits of immunotherapy with anti-CD19 CAR T cells to other targets and tumor types."

"966. Cancer Immunol Res. 2016 Oct;4(10):869-880. Epub 2016 Aug 22.","Reduction of MDSCs with All-trans Retinoic Acid Improves CAR Therapy Efficacy for Sarcomas.","Genetically engineered T cells expressing CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) have shown impressive activity against B-cell malignancies, and preliminary results suggest that T cells expressing a first-generation disialoganglioside (GD2)-specific CAR can also provide clinical benefit in patients with neuroblastoma. We sought to assess the potential of GD2-CAR therapies to treat pediatric sarcomas. We observed that 18 of 18 (100%) of osteosarcomas, 2 of 15 (13%) of rhabdomyosarcomas, and 7 of 35 (20%) of Ewing sarcomas expressed GD2. T cells engineered to express a third-generation GD2-CAR  incorporating the 14g2a-scFv with the CD28, OX40, and CD3ζ signaling domains (14g2a.CD28.OX40.ζ) mediated efficient and comparable lysis of both GD2+ sarcoma  and neuroblastoma cell lines in vitro However, in xenograft models, GD2-CAR T cells had no antitumor effect against GD2+ sarcoma, despite effectively controlling GD2+ neuroblastoma. We observed that pediatric sarcoma xenografts, but not neuroblastoma xenografts, induced large populations of monocytic and granulocytic murine myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) that inhibited human  CAR T-cell responses in vitro Treatment of sarcoma-bearing mice with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) largely eradicated monocytic MDSCs and diminished the suppressive capacity of granulocytic MDSCs. Combined therapy using GD2-CAR T cells plus ATRA significantly improved antitumor efficacy against sarcoma xenografts. We conclude that retinoids provide a clinically accessible class of agents capable of diminishing the suppressive effects of MDSCs, and that co-administration of retinoids may enhance the efficacy of CAR therapies targeting solid tumors. Cancer Immunol Res; 4(10); 869-80. ©2016 AACR."

"967. Cancer Lett. 2016 Oct 1;380(2):413-23. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2016.07.001. Epub 2016 Jul 5.","Prospects for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) γδ T cells: A potential game changer for adoptive T cell cancer immunotherapy.","Excitement is growing for therapies that harness the power of patients immune systems to combat their diseases. One approach to immunotherapy involves engineering patients own T cells to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to treat advanced cancers, particularly those refractory to conventional therapeutic agents. Although these engineered immune cells have made remarkable strides in the treatment of patients with certain hematologic malignancies, success with solid tumors has been limited, probably due to immunosuppressive mechanisms in the tumor niche. In nearly all studies to date, T cells bearing αβ receptors have been used to generate CAR T cells. In this review, we highlight biological characteristics of γδ T cells that are distinct from those of αβ T cells, including homing to epithelial and mucosal tissues and unique functions such as direct antigen recognition, lack of alloreactivity, and ability to present antigens. We offer our perspective that these features make γδ T cells promising  for use in cellular therapy against several types of solid tumors, including melanoma and gastrointestinal cancers. Engineered γδ T cells should be considered as a new platform for adoptive T cell cancer therapy for mucosal tumors."

"968. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2016 Oct;14(10):802-808.","CD19-Targeted CAR T cells as novel cancer immunotherapy for relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Immunotherapy has demonstrated significant potential for the treatment of patients with chemotherapy-resistant hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. One type of immunotherapy involves the adoptive transfer of T cells that have been genetically modified with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to target a tumor. These hybrid proteins are composed of the antigen-binding domains of an antibody fused to T-cell receptor signaling machinery. CAR T cells that target CD19 recently have made the jump from the laboratory to the clinic, and the results have been remarkable. CD19-targeted CAR T cells have induced complete remissions of disease in up to 90% of patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), who have an expected complete response rate of 30% in response to chemotherapy. The high efficacy of CAR T cells in B-ALL suggests that regulatory approval of this therapy for this routinely fatal leukemia is on the horizon. We review the preclinical development of CAR T cells  and their early clinical application for lymphoma. We also provide a comprehensive analysis of the use of CAR T cells in patients with B-ALL. In addition, we discuss the unique toxicities associated with this therapy and the management schemes that have been developed."

"969. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2016 Oct;11(5):368-84. doi: 10.1007/s11899-016-0336-z.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T cells for B Cell Neoplasms: Choose the Right CAR for  You.","Genetic redirection of T lymphocytes allows us to unleash these potent cellular immune effectors against cancer. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are the  best-in-class example that genetic engineering of T cells can lead to deep and durable responses, as has been shown in several clinical trials for CD19+ B cell  malignancies. As a consequence, in the last few years, several academic institutions and commercial partners have started developing anti-CD19 CAR T cell products. Although most of these T cell products are highly effective in vivo, basic differences among them can generate different performance characteristics and thereby impact their long-term clinical outcome. Several strategies are being implemented in order to solve the current open issues of CART19 therapy: (i) increasing efficacy against indolent B cell leukemias and lymphomas, (ii) avoiding or preventing antigen-loss relapses, (iii) reducing and managing toxicity, and (iv) bringing this CART therapy to routine clinical practice. The field of CART therapies is thriving, and exciting new avenues are opening for both scientists and patients."

"970. Discov Med. 2016 Oct;22(121):215-220.","Recent advances in engineered T cell therapies targeting B cell malignancies.","Immunotherapy using engineered autologous T cells has been attempted for decades, but clinical trials have only recently demonstrated efficacy. The combination of  enhanced manufacturing techniques, highly efficient engineering, appropriate target selection and synthetic receptors with potent T cell activating domains has led to the development of highly-active cellular therapy products. B-cell malignancies have served as the paradigmatic diseases to initially evaluate and subsequently hone engineered T cells targeting cancer. Two engineered receptors,  transgenic T cell receptors (tTCRs) and chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), have been explored clinically at several different institutions. The most profound success has been in pediatric and adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia, in which complete response rates after treatment with CD19-directed CAR T cells approach 90%. Success has been slightly less impressive in slower-growing diseases such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), and experience is much more limited in the plasma cell disease multiple myeloma. A great deal of investigation is underway to understand the differences in response rates observed, and enhance the efficacy of these therapies in B cell cancers. Here, we review landmark and recent clinical trials, as well as pre-clinical work that demonstrates significant promise in propelling this field further in the coming years."

"972. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016 Oct;16(10):1265-75. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2016.1214266. Epub 2016 Jul 29.","Cellular immunotherapy for malignant gliomas.","INTRODUCTION: Cancer immunotherapy has made much progress in recent years. Clinical trials evaluating a variety of immunotherapeutic approaches are underway in patients with malignant gliomas. Thanks to recent advancements in cell engineering technologies, infusion of ex vivo prepared immune cells have emerged  as promising strategies of cancer immunotherapy. AREAS COVERED: Herein, the authors review recent and current studies using cellular immunotherapies for malignant gliomas. Specifically, they cover the following areas: a) cellular vaccine approaches using tumor cell-based or dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines, and b) adoptive cell transfer (ACT) approaches, including lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, γδ T cells, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells and T-cell receptor (TCR) transduced T cells. EXPERT OPINION: While some of the recent studies have shown promising results, the ultimate success of cellular immunotherapy in brain tumor patients would require improvements in the following areas: 1) feasibility in producing cellular therapeutics; 2) identification and characterization of targetable antigens given the paucity and heterogeneity of tumor specific antigens; 3) the development of strategies to promote effector T-cell trafficking; 4) overcoming local and systemic immune suppression, and 5) proper interpretation of imaging data for brain tumor patients receiving immunotherapy."

"974. Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Oct;166:30-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2016.06.010. Epub 2016 Jun 29.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for the treatment of solid tumors: Defining the challenges and next steps.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has shown promise in CD19 expressing hematologic malignancies, but how to translate this success to solid malignancies remains elusive. Effective translation of CAR T cells to solid tumors will require an understanding of potential therapeutic barriers, including factors that regulate CAR T cells expansion, persistence, trafficking, and fate within tumors. Herein, we describe the current state of CAR T cells in solid tumors; define key barriers to CAR T cell efficacy and mechanisms underlying these barriers, outline potential avenues for overcoming these therapeutic obstacles, and discuss the future of translating CAR T cells for the treatment of patients with solid malignancies."

"975. Prostate. 2016 Oct;76(14):1257-70. doi: 10.1002/pros.23214. Epub 2016 Jun 21.","Phase I Trial of Anti-PSMA Designer CAR-T Cells in Prostate Cancer: Possible Role for Interacting Interleukin 2-T Cell Pharmacodynamics as a Determinant of Clinical Response.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified designer T cells (dTc, CAR-T) against PSMA selectively target antigen-expressing cells in vitro and eliminate tumors in vivo. Interleukin 2 (IL2), widely used in adoptive therapies, was proven essential in animal models for dTc to eradicate established solid tumors. METHODS: Patients under-went chemotherapy condi-tion-ing, followed by dTc dosing  under a Phase I escalation with continuous infusion low dose IL2 (LDI). A target  of dTc escalation was to achieve ≥20% engraftment of infused activated T cells. RESULTS: Six patients enrolled with doses prepared of whom five were treated. Patients received 10(9) or 10(10) autologous T cells, achieving expansions of 20-560-fold over 2 weeks and engraftments of 5-56%. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses established the impact of conditioning to promote expansion and engraftment of the infused T cells. Unexpectedly, administered IL2  was depleted up to 20-fold with high engraftments of activated T cells (aTc) in an inverse correlation (P < 0.01). Clinically, no anti-PSMA toxicities were noted, and no anti-CAR reactivities were detected post-treatment. Two-of-five patients achieved clinical partial responses (PR), with PSA declines of 50% and 70% and PSA delays of 78 and 150 days, plus a minor response in a third patient.  Responses were unrelated to dose size (P = 0.6), instead correlating inversely with engraftment (P = 0.06) and directly with plasma IL2 (P = 0.03), suggesting insufficient IL2 with our LDI protocol to support dTc anti-tumor activity under optimal (high) dTc engraftments. CONCLUSIONS: Under a Phase I dose escalation in prostate cancer, a 20% engraftment target was met or exceeded in three subjects with adequate safety, leading to study conclusion. Clinical responses were obtained but were suggested  to be restrained by low plasma IL2 when depleted by high levels of engrafted activated T cells. This report presents a unique example of how the pharmaco-dynamics of drug-drug interactions may have a critical impact on the efficacy of their co-application. A new Pilot/Phase II trial is planned to test moderate dose IL2 (MDI) together with high dTc engraftments for anticipated improved therapeutic efficacy. Prostate 76:1257-1270, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc."

"976. Ther Adv Hematol. 2016 Oct;7(5):252-269. Epub 2016 Jun 29.","Recent advances and novel treatment paradigms in acute lymphocytic leukemia.","This is an exciting time in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) given the advances in the relapsed/refractory setting. The development of antibody treatments (including antibody drug conjugates with toxins) offers a different treatment approach compared with conventional chemotherapy regimens. Moreover, the use of bispecific T-cell-engager antibodies (BiTEs) such as blinatumomab harness the cytotoxic activity of T cells against CD19-positive lymphoblasts. Another strategy involves the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. CAR T cells have demonstrated promising results in the relapsed/refractory setting. However, the use of BiTEs and CAR T cells is also associated with a distinct set of adverse reactions that must be taken into account by the treating physician. Apart from the above strategies, the use of other targeted therapies has attracted interest. Namely, the discovery of the Philadelphia (Ph)-like signature in children and young adults with ALL has led to the use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) in these patients. The different drugs and strategies that are being tested in the relapsed/refractory ALL setting pose a unique challenge in identifying the optimum sequence of treatment and determining which approaches should be considered for frontline treatment."

"979. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Sep 8;17(9). pii: E1506. doi: 10.3390/ijms17091506.","Development of Novel Immunotherapies for Multiple Myeloma.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a disorder of terminally differentiated plasma cells characterized by clonal expansion in the bone marrow (BM). It is the second-most  common hematologic malignancy. Despite significant advances in therapeutic strategies, MM remains a predominantly incurable disease emphasizing the need for the development of new treatment regimens. Immunotherapy is a promising treatment modality to circumvent challenges in the management of MM. Many novel immunotherapy strategies, such as adoptive cell therapy and monoclonal antibodies, are currently under investigation in clinical trials, with some already demonstrating a positive impact on patient survival. In this review, we will summarize the current standards of care and discuss major new approaches in  immunotherapy for MM."

"980. Sci Transl Med. 2016 Sep 7;8(355):355ra116. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aaf8621.","Immunotherapy of non-Hodgkins lymphoma with a defined ratio of CD8+ and CD4+ CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells have antitumor activity in B cell malignancies, but factors that affect toxicity and efficacy have been difficult to define because of differences in lymphodepletion and heterogeneity of CAR-T cells administered to individual patients. We conducted a  clinical trial in which CD19 CAR-T cells were manufactured from defined T cell subsets and administered in a 1:1 CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio of CAR-T cells to 32 adults with relapsed and/or refractory B cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma after cyclophosphamide (Cy)-based lymphodepletion chemotherapy with or without fludarabine (Flu). Patients who received Cy/Flu lymphodepletion had increased CAR-T cell expansion and persistence, and higher response rates [50% complete remission (CR), 72% overall response rate (ORR)] than patients who received Cy-based lymphodepletion without Flu (8% CR, 50% ORR). The CR rate in patients treated with Cy/Flu at the maximally tolerated dose was 64% (82% ORR; n = 11). Cy/Flu minimized the effects of an immune response to the murine single-chain variable fragment component of the CAR, which limited CAR-T cell expansion and clinical efficacy in patients who received Cy-based lymphodepletion without Flu.  Severe cytokine release syndrome (sCRS) and grade ≥3 neurotoxicity were observed  in 13 and 28% of all patients, respectively. Serum biomarkers, one day after CAR-T cell infusion, correlated with subsequent sCRS and neurotoxicity. Immunotherapy with CD19 CAR-T cells in a defined CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio allowed identification of correlative factors for CAR-T cell expansion, persistence, and  toxicity, and facilitated optimization of lymphodepletion that improved disease response and overall and progression-free survival."

"981. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 6;11(9):e0161820. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0161820. eCollection 2016.","Co-Expansion of Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells and Vγ9Vδ2 T Cells for CAR T-Cell Therapy.","Gamma delta (γδ) T cells and cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells, which are a heterogeneous population of T lymphocytes and natural killer T (NKT) cells, have  been separately expanded ex vivo and shown to be capable of targeting and mediating cytotoxicity against various tumor cells in a major histocompatibility  complex-unrestricted manner. However, the co-expansion and co-administration of these immune cells have not been explored. In this study we describe an efficient method to expand simultaneously both CIK and Vγ9Vδ2 T cells, termed as CIKZ cells, from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using Zometa, interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), interleukin 2 (IL-2), anti-CD3 antibody and engineered  K562 feeder cells expressing CD64, CD137L and CD86. A 21-day culture of PBMCs with this method yielded nearly 20,000-fold expansion of CIKZ cells with γδ T cells making up over 20% of the expanded population. The expanded CIKZ cells exhibited antitumor cytotoxicity and could be modified to express anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), anti-CEA CAR, and anti-HER2 CAR to enhance their specificity and cytotoxicity against CD19-, CEA-, or HER2-positive tumor cells. The tumor inhibitory activity of anti-CD19 CAR-modified CIKZ cells was further demonstrated in vivo in a Raji tumor mouse model. The findings herein substantiate the feasibility of co-expanding CIK and γδ cells for adoptive cellular immunotherapy applications such as CAR T-cell therapy against cancer."

"982. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Sep 2;5(10):e1227897. eCollection 2016.","GUCY2C-directed CAR-T cells oppose colorectal cancer metastases without autoimmunity.","Adoptive T-cell therapy (ACT) is an emerging paradigm in which T cells are genetically modified to target cancer-associated antigens and eradicate tumors. However, challenges treating epithelial cancers with ACT reflect antigen targets  that are not tumor-specific, permitting immune damage to normal tissues, and preclinical testing in artificial xenogeneic models, preventing prediction of toxicities in patients. In that context, mucosa-restricted antigens expressed by  cancers exploit anatomical compartmentalization which shields mucosae from systemic antitumor immunity. This shielding may be amplified with ACT platforms employing antibody-based chimeric antigen receptors (CARs), which mediate MHC-independent recog-nition of antigens. GUCY2C is a cancer mucosa antigen expressed on the luminal surfaces of the intestinal mucosa in mice and humans, and universally overexpressed by colorectal tumors, suggesting its unique utility as an ACT target. T cells expressing CARs directed by a GUCY2C-specific antibody  fragment recognized GUCY2C, quantified by expression of activation markers and cytokines. Further, GUCY2C CAR-T cells lysed GUCY2C-expressing, but not GUCY2C-deficient, mouse colorectal cancer cells. Moreover, GUCY2C CAR-T cells reduced tumor number and morbidity and improved survival in mice harboring GUCY2C-expressing colorectal cancer metastases. GUCY2C-directed T cell efficacy reflected CAR affinity and surface expression and was achieved without immune-mediated damage to normal tissues in syngeneic mice. These observations highlight the potential for therapeutic translation of GUCY2C-directed CAR-T cells to treat metastatic tumors, without collateral autoimmunity, in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer."

"983. Anticancer Drugs. 2016 Sep;27(8):711-22. doi: 10.1097/CAD.0000000000000387.","Paralleled comparison of vectors for the generation of CAR-T cells.","T-lymphocytes genetically engineered with the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) have shown great therapeutic potential in cancer treatment. A variety of preclinical researches and clinical trials of CAR-T therapy have been carried out to lay the foundation for future clinical application. In these researches, several gene-transfer methods were used to deliver CARs or other genes into T-lymphocytes, equipping CAR-modified T cells with a property of recognizing and  attacking antigen-expressing tumor cells in a major histocompatibility complex-independent manner. Here, we summarize the gene-transfer vectors commonly used in the generation of CAR-T cell, including retrovirus vectors, lentivirus vectors, the transposon/transposase system, the plasmid-based system, and the messenger RNA electroporation system. The following aspects were compared in parallel: efficiency of gene transfer, the integration methods in the modified T  cells, foreground of scale-up production, and application and development in clinical trials. These aspects should be taken into account to generate the optimal CAR-gene vector that may be suitable for future clinical application."

"984. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2016 Sep;44(6):1339-49. doi: 10.3109/21691401.2015.1052465. Epub 2015 Jun 11.","CAR-modified T-cell therapy for cancer: an updated review.","The use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells is a promising approach for cancer immunotherapy. These genetically modified receptors contain an antigen-binding moiety, a hinge region, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular costimulatory domain resulting in T-cell activation subsequent to antigen binding. Optimal tumor removal through CAR-modified T cells requires suitable target antigen selection, co-stimulatory signaling domain, and the ability of CAR T cells to traffic, persist, and retain antitumor function after adoptive transfer. There are several elements which can improve antitumor function of CAR T cells, including signaling, conditioning chemotherapy and irradiation, tumor burden of the disease, T-cell phenotype, and supplementary cytokine usage. This review outlines four generations of CAR. The pre-clinical and clinical studies showed that this technique has a great potential for treatment of solid and hematological malignancies. The main purpose of the current review is to focus on the pre-clinical and clinical developments of CAR-based immunotherapy."

"986. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Sep;100(3):198-203. doi: 10.1002/cpt.404.","Immunotherapy to Treat Cancer.","This issue of Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics focuses on immunotherapy as an approach to treat cancer by generating or augmenting an immune response against it. The enthusiasm for immunotherapy has waxed and waned over the past century. Enthusiasm for immunotherapy has risen over the past decade due, in part, to data showing that cancer immunotherapy consistently improves overall survival in select patients with advanced-stage cancer. Antitumor immunotherapy has broad potential and could be used to treat many different types of advanced-stage cancer due to the durable and robust response that it elicits across a diverse spectrum of cancers. This issue covers various aspects of relevant therapeutic topics ranging from discovery of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, development of novel immunotherapies using novel pharmacokinetic/dynamic modeling tools, to the utilization of immune checkpoint therapy. Regarding utilization, this issue addresses biomarker selection strategies for personalized treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with immune checkpoint therapy and also the management of the unique immune response adverse events (irAEs)."

"987. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Sep;100(3):252-8. doi: 10.1002/cpt.392. Epub 2016 Jun 17.","CD19-Targeted chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell immunotherapy for B-cell  malignancies.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) comprise a tumor-targeting moiety, often in the form of a single chain variable fragment derived from a monoclonal antibody, fused to one or more intracellular T-cell signaling sequences. Lymphodepletion chemotherapy followed by infusion of T cells that are genetically modified to express a CD19-specific CAR is a promising therapy for patients with refractory CD19(+) B-cell malignancies, producing rates of complete remission that are remarkably high in acute lymphoblastic leukemia and encouraging in non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Responses are often durable, although  additional studies are needed to define the role of CAR-T cell immunotherapy in the context of other treatments. CAR-modified T-cell immunotherapy can be complicated by cytokine release syndrome and neurologic toxicity, which in most cases are manageable and reversible. Here we review recent clinical trial data and discuss issues for the field."

"988. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016 Sep;16(9):1093-104. doi: 10.1080/14712598.2016.1190828. Epub 2016 Jun 13.","Challenges in vaccine therapy in hematological malignancies and strategies to overcome them.","INTRODUCTION: Hematological malignancies (HM) are a promising platform for immunotherapy when considering the marked durable remissions historically achieved through allogeneic stem cell transplantation in select patients. Both non-cell and cell-based vaccine models have been utilized to elicit T cell tumor-specific eradication of malignant cells with resultant striking immunologic effects, but only modest clinical outcomes. In the last decade, the field of oncology has garnered greater insight into the complex mechanisms underpinning immune dysregulation in HM. AREAS COVERED: This review addresses the development of vaccine strategies for HM examining the challenges of effectively inducing tumor-specific immunity and overcoming the barriers created by the tumor microenvironment. EXPERT OPINION: Through a better understanding of the tumor immunosuppressive milieu and immunobiology of HM, rational immunotherapeutic combination therapies  can be designed incorporating the potency of vaccine therapy to stimulate native  immune responses. In current practice, the use of combinatorial immunotherapies in the treatment of HM is becoming more recognized. This strategy, with vaccines  as the backbone, will likely lead to paradigm-changing therapeutic regimens in the decades to come, affording HM patients with durable remissions and improved quality of life."

"990. J Immunother. 2016 Sep;39(7):249-59. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000134.","Engineering Hematopoietic Cells for Cancer Immunotherapy: Strategies to Address Safety and Toxicity Concerns.","Advances in cancer immunotherapies utilizing engineered hematopoietic cells have  recently generated significant clinical successes. Of great promise are immunotherapies based on chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T (CAR-T) cells that are targeted toward malignant cells expressing defined tumor-associated antigens. CAR-T cells harness the effector function of the adaptive arm of the immune system and redirect it against cancer cells, overcoming the major challenges of immunotherapy, such as breaking tolerance to self-antigens and beating cancer immune system-evasion mechanisms. In early clinical trials, CAR-T  cell-based therapies achieved complete and durable responses in a significant proportion of patients. Despite clinical successes and given the side effect profiles of immunotherapies based on engineered cells, potential concerns with the safety and toxicity of various therapeutic modalities remain. We discuss the  concerns associated with the safety and stability of the gene delivery vehicles for cell engineering and with toxicities due to off-target and on-target, off-tumor effector functions of the engineered cells. We then overview the various strategies aimed at improving the safety of and resolving toxicities associated with cell-based immunotherapies. Integrating failsafe switches based on different suicide gene therapy systems into engineered cells engenders promising strategies toward ensuring the safety of cancer immunotherapies in the  clinic."

"993. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 22;11(8):e0159477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159477. eCollection 2016.","Redirecting Specificity of T cells Using the Sleeping Beauty System to Express Chimeric Antigen Receptors by Mix-and-Matching of VL and VH Domains Targeting CD123+ Tumors.","Adoptive immunotherapy infusing T cells with engineered specificity for CD19 expressed on B- cell malignancies is generating enthusiasm to extend this approach to other hematological malignancies, such as acute myelogenous leukemia  (AML). CD123, or interleukin 3 receptor alpha, is overexpressed on most AML and some lymphoid malignancies, such as acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and has been an effective target for T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). The prototypical CAR encodes a VH and VL from one monoclonal antibody (mAb), coupled to a transmembrane domain and one or more cytoplasmic signaling domains. Previous studies showed that treatment of an experimental AML model with CD123-specific CAR T cells was therapeutic, but at the cost of impaired myelopoiesis, highlighting the need for systems to define the antigen threshold for CAR recognition. Here, we show that CARs can be engineered using VH and VL chains derived from different CD123-specific mAbs to generate a panel of CAR+ T cells. While all CARs exhibited specificity to CD123, one VH and VL combination had reduced lysis of normal hematopoietic stem cells. This CARs in vivo anti-tumor activity was similar whether signaling occurred via chimeric CD28 or CD137, prolonging survival in both AML and ALL models. Co-expression of inducible caspase 9 eliminated CAR+ T cells. These data help support the use of CD123-specific CARs for treatment of CD123+ hematologic malignancies."

"994. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Aug 15;9(1):70. doi: 10.1186/s13045-016-0299-5.","Predominant cerebral cytokine release syndrome in CD19-directed chimeric antigen  receptor-modified T cell therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR) T cells targeting CD19 (CART19) have shown therapeutical activities in CD19+ malignancies. However, the etiological nature of neurologic complications remains a conundrum. In our study, the evidence of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating CAR T cells as a culprit was revealed. A patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia developed sustained pyrexia with tremors about 6 h after CART19 infusion, followed by a grade 2 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurological symptoms in the next 3 days. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance showed signs of intracranial edema. Lumbar puncture on day 5 showed an over 400-mmH2O cerebrospinal pressure. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) contained 20 WBCs/μL with predominant CD3+ T cells. qPCR analysis for CAR constructs showed 3,032,265 copies/μg DNA in CSF and 988,747 copies/μg DNA in blood. Cytokine levels including IFN-γ and IL-6 in CSF were extremely higher than those in the serum. Methyprednisone was administrated  and the symptoms relieved gradually. The predominance of CART19 in CSF and the huge discrepancies in cytokine distributions indicated the development of a cerebral CRS, presumably featured as CSF cytokines largely in situ produced by BBB-penetrating CAR T cells. For the first time, we reported the development of cerebral CRS triggered by BBB-penetrating CAR T cells.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ChiCTR-OCC-15007008 ."

"995. Blood Cancer J. 2016 Aug 12;6(8):e458. doi: 10.1038/bcj.2016.61.","Switching CAR T cells on and off: a novel modular platform for retargeting of T cells to AML blasts.","The adoptive transfer of CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cells (CAR T cells) resulted in encouraging clinical trials in indolent B-cell malignancies. However, they also show the limitations of this fascinating technology: CAR T cells can lead to even life-threatening off-tumor, on-target side effects if CAR T cells crossreact with healthy tissues. Here, we describe a  novel modular universal CAR platform technology termed UniCAR that reduces the risk of on-target side effects by a rapid and reversible control of CAR T-cell reactivity. The UniCAR system consists of two components: (1) a CAR for an inert  manipulation of T cells and (2) specific targeting modules (TMs) for redirecting  UniCAR T cells in an individualized time- and target-dependent manner. UniCAR T cells can be armed against different tumor targets simply by replacement of the respective TM for (1) targeting more than one antigen simultaneously or subsequently to enhance efficacy and (2) reducing the risk for development of antigen-loss tumor variants under treatment. Here we provide proof of concept for retargeting of UniCAR T cells to CD33- and/or CD123-positive acute myeloid leukemia blasts in vitro and in vivo."

"996. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Aug 5;5(11):e1217374. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1217374. eCollection 2016.","Immunotherapies targeting CD38 in Multiple Myeloma.","Recently, the monoclonal antibody daratumumab was approved as a single agent for  the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory Multiple Myeloma (MM). Daratumumab is an antibody targeting surface molecule CD38 on myeloma cells and the agent is already widely being used based on its good tolerability and proven  efficacy. We believe, however, that the efficacy of this drug and other anti-CD38 monoclonal antibodies can be further improved by combining it with other types of immunotherapies. Furthermore, surface molecule CD38 can be used as a target for immunotherapies other than just naked monoclonal antibodies. In this report, we review the expression pattern of CD38 among normal tissues and in different types of plasma cell dyscrasias including their progenitor cells, minimal residual disease, and circulating tumor cells. We summarize the physiological role of CD38 as well as its role in the pathophysiology of MM and we present the most recent clinical trials using CD38 as a target. In addition, we highlight possible combination immunotherapies incorporating anti-CD38 monoclonal antibodies and we  demonstrate alternative immunotherapeutic approaches targeting the same antigen such as CD38-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells."

"997. Cancer Immunol Res. 2016 Aug;4(8):643. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-16-0132. Epub 2016 Jun 23.","Remote Controlled CARs: Towards a Safer Therapy for Leukemia.","Genetic engineering of patient T cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T cells) provides a powerful tool for inducing remissions in patients with various  cancers derived from B cells. Challenges stemming from the inability to control the CAR T cells once given pose significant safety concerns. An article in Cancer Immunology Research presents an approach to circumvent this issue. Cancer Immunol Res; 4(8); 643. ©2016 AACRSee article by Sakemura et al., p. 658."

"999. Clin Immunol. 2016 Aug;169:107-113. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2016.06.014. Epub 2016 Jul 1.","Plasma IFN-γ and IL-6 levels correlate with peripheral T-cell numbers but not toxicity in RCC patients treated with CAR T-cells.","Autologous T-cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against carboxy-anhydrase-IX (CAIX) were administered to twelve patients with CAIX-positive metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Here, we questioned whether plasma cytokine levels following treatment or in vitro cytokine production from the T-cell infusion products could serve as predictors for peripheral T-cell persistence or in vivo T-cell activity. We demonstrated that CAR surface as well  as gene expression are down-regulated following T-cell infusion, and that peripheral numbers of CAR T-cells are best captured by flow cytometry and not by  qPCR. Numbers of CAR T-cells in blood correlated with plasma levels of IFN-γ and  IL-6, but not with any of the other cytokines tested. Plasma IFN-γ or IL-6 levels did not correlate with liver enzyme values. Thus, out of 27 cytokines tested, IFN-γ and IL-6 levels in plasma are potential surrogate markers for CAR T-cell persistence in solid tumors."

"1000. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2016 Aug;11(4):318-25. doi: 10.1007/s11899-016-0330-5.","Planes, Trains, and Automobiles: Perspectives on CAR T Cells and Other Cellular Therapies for Hematologic Malignancies.","Hematologic oncologists now have at their disposal (or a referral away) a myriad  of new options to get from point A (a patient with relapsed or poor-risk disease) to point B (potential tumor eradication and long-term disease-free survival). In  this perspective piece, we discuss the putative mechanisms of action and the relative strengths and weaknesses of currently available cellular therapy approaches. Notably, while many of these approaches have been published in high impact journals, with the exception of allogeneic stem cell transplantation and of checkpoint inhibitors (PD1/PDL1 or CTLA4 blockade), the published clinical trials have mostly been early phase, uncontrolled studies. Therefore, many of the new cellular therapy approaches have yet to demonstrate incontrovertible evidence of enhanced overall survival compared with controls. Nonetheless, the science behind these is sure to advance our understanding of cancer immunology and ultimately to bring us closer to our goal of curing cancer."

"1001. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Aug;17(8):42. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0418-0.","Targeted Therapeutics in Patients With High-Grade Gliomas: Past, Present, and Future.","OPINION STATEMENT: High-grade gliomas remain incurable despite current therapies, which are plagued by high morbidity and mortality. Molecular categorization of glioma subtypes using mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 (IDH1/2), TP53, and ATRX; codeletion of chromosomes 1p and 19q; DNA methylation; and amplification of genes such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor, alpha polypeptide provides a more accurate prognostication and biologic classification than classical histopathological diagnoses, and a number of molecular markers are being incorporated in the new World Health Organization classification of gliomas. However, despite the improved understanding of the molecular subtypes of gliomas  and the underlying alterations in specific signaling pathways, these observations have so far failed to result in the successful application of targeted therapies, as has occurred in other solid tumors. To date, the only targeted therapy for gliomas approved by the US Food and Drug Administration is bevacizumab, which targets vascular endothelial growth factor. EGFR remains a dominant molecular alteration in specific glioma subtypes and represents a potentially promising target, with drugs of multiple types targeting EGFR in development including vaccines, antibody drug conjugates, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells,  despite the prior failures of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Immune therapies under investigation include checkpoint inhibitors, vaccines against tumor-associated antigens and tumor-specific antigens, pulsed dendritic cells, heat shock protein-tumor conjugates, and CAR T cells. Mutations in the IDH1/2 genes are central to gliomagenesis in a high proportion of grade II and III gliomas, and ongoing trials are examining vaccines against IDH1, small molecular  inhibitors of IDH1 and IDH2, and metabolic components including NAD+ depletion to target IDH-mutated gliomas. The central role of DNA methylation in a subset of gliomas may be targetable, but better understanding of the relation between epigenetic alterations and resulting tumor biology appears necessary. Ultimately, given the prior failure of single-agent targeted therapy in high-grade gliomas, it appears that novel combinatorial therapy or targeted drugs with immunomodulatory or epigenetic approaches will likely be necessary to successfully combat these challenging tumors."

"1002. Cytotherapy. 2016 Aug;18(8):985-94. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.05.001. Epub 2016 Jun 2.","A novel TCR-like CAR with specificity for PR1/HLA-A2 effectively targets myeloid  leukemia in vitro when expressed in human adult peripheral blood and cord blood T cells.","BACKGROUND AIMS: The PR1 peptide, derived from the leukemia-associated antigens proteinase 3 and neutrophil elastase, is overexpressed on HLA-A2 in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We developed a T-cell receptor (TCR)-like monoclonal antibody (8F4) that binds the PR1/HLA-A2 complex on the surface of AML cells, efficiently  killing them in vitro and eliminating them in preclinical models. Humanized 8F4 (h8F4) with high affinity for the PR1/HLA-A2 epitope was used to construct an h8F4- chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that was transduced into T cells to mediate anti-leukemia activity. METHODS: Human T cells were transduced to express the PR1/HLA-A2-specific CAR (h8F4-CAR-T cells) containing the scFv of h8F4 fused to the intracellular signaling endo-domain of CD3 zeta chain through the transmembrane and intracellular costimulatory domain of CD28. RESULTS: Adult human normal peripheral blood (PB) T cells were efficiently transduced with the h8F4-CAR construct and predominantly displayed an effector memory phenotype with a minor population (12%) of central memory cells in vitro.  Umbilical cord blood (UCB) T cells could also be efficiently transduced with the  h8F4-CAR. The PB and UCB-derived h8F4-CAR-T cells specifically recognized the PR1/HLA-A2 complex and were capable of killing leukemia cell lines and primary AML blasts in an HLA-A2-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: Human adult PB and UCB-derived T cells expressing a CAR derived from the TCR-like 8F4 antibody rapidly and efficiently kill AML in vitro. Our data could lead to a new treatment paradigm for AML in which targeting leukemia stem cells could transfer long-term immunity to protect against relapse."

"1003. J Clin Invest. 2016 Aug 1;126(8):3130-44. doi: 10.1172/JCI83092. Epub 2016 Jul 25.","Human CAR T cells with cell-intrinsic PD-1 checkpoint blockade resist tumor-mediated inhibition.","Following immune attack, solid tumors upregulate coinhibitory ligands that bind to inhibitory receptors on T cells. This adaptive resistance compromises the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies, which redirect T cells to solid tumors. Here, we investigated whether programmed death-1-mediated  (PD-1-mediated) T cell exhaustion affects mesothelin-targeted CAR T cells and explored cell-intrinsic strategies to overcome inhibition of CAR T cells. Using an orthotopic mouse model of pleural mesothelioma, we determined that relatively  high doses of both CD28- and 4-1BB-based second-generation CAR T cells achieved tumor eradication. CAR-mediated CD28 and 4-1BB costimulation resulted in similar  levels of T cell persistence in animals treated with low T cell doses; however, PD-1 upregulation within the tumor microenvironment inhibited T cell function. At lower doses, 4-1BB CAR T cells retained their cytotoxic and cytokine secretion functions longer than CD28 CAR T cells. The prolonged function of 4-1BB CAR T cells correlated with improved survival. PD-1/PD-1 ligand [PD-L1] pathway interference, through PD-1 antibody checkpoint blockade, cell-intrinsic PD-1 shRNA blockade, or a PD-1 dominant negative receptor, restored the effector function of CD28 CAR T cells. These findings provide mechanistic insights into human CAR T cell exhaustion in solid tumors and suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 blockade  may be an effective strategy for improving the potency of CAR T cell therapies."

"1006. Mol Ther. 2016 Aug;24(7):1178-86. doi: 10.1038/mt.2016.106. Epub 2016 May 16.","Translational Implications for Off-the-shelf Immune Cells Expressing Chimeric Antigen Receptors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) endows specificity to T-cells independent of human leukocyte antigen (HLA). This enables one immunoreceptor to directly target the same surface antigen on different subsets of tumor cells from multiple HLA-disparate recipients. Most approaches manufacture individualized CAR(+)T-cells from the recipient or HLA-compatible donor, which are revealing promising clinical results. This is the impetus to broaden the number of patients eligible to benefit from adoptive immunotherapy such as to infuse third-party donor derived CAR(+)T-cells. This will overcome issues associated with (i) time to manufacture T-cells, (ii) cost to generate one product for one patient, (iii)  inability to generate a product from lymphopenic patients or patients immune cells fail to complete the manufacturing process, and (iv) heterogeneity of T-cell products produced for or from individual recipients. Establishing a biobank of allogeneic genetically modified immune cells from healthy third-party  donors, which are cryopreserved and validated in advance of administration, will  facilitate the centralizing manufacturing and widespread distribution of CAR(+)T-cells to multiple points-of-care in a timely manner. To achieve this, it  is necessary to engineer an effective strategy to avoid deleterious allogeneic immune responses leading to toxicity and rejection. We review the strategies to establish off-the-shelf donor-derived biobanks for human application of CAR(+)T-cells as a drug."

"1007. Nat Commun. 2016 Jul 27;7:12320. doi: 10.1038/ncomms12320.","CD19 CAR immune pressure induces B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia lineage switch exposing inherent leukaemic plasticity.","Adoptive immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) expressing T cells targeting the CD19 B lineage receptor has demonstrated marked success in relapsed pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Persisting CAR-T cells generate sustained pressure against CD19 that may drive unique mechanisms of resistance. Pre-B ALL originates from a committed pre-B cell or an earlier progenitor, with potential to reprogram into other hematopoietic lineages. Here we report changes  in lineage markers including myeloid conversion in patients following CD19 CAR therapy. Using murine ALL models we study the long-term effects of CD19 CAR-T cells and demonstrate partial or complete lineage switch as a consistent mechanism of CAR resistance depending on the underlying genetic oncogenic driver. Deletion of Pax5 or Ebf1 recapitulates lineage reprogramming occurring during CD19 CAR pressure. Our findings establish lineage switch as a mechanism of CAR resistance exposing inherent plasticity in genetic subtypes of pre-B-cell ALL."

"1008. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Jul 25;5(9):e1211218. eCollection 2016.","Efficient tumor regression by adoptively transferred CEA-specific CAR-T cells associated with symptoms of mild cytokine release syndrome.","Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a cell surface antigen highly expressed in various cancer cell types and in healthy tissues. It has the potential to be a target for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T-cell therapy; however, the  safety of this approach in terms of on-target/off-tumor effects needs to be determined. To address this issue in a clinically relevant model, we used a mouse model in which the T cells expressing CEA-specific CAR were transferred into tumor-bearing CEA-transgenic (Tg) mice that physiologically expressed CEA as a self-antigen. The adoptive transfer in conjunction with lymphodepleting and myeloablative preconditioning mediated significant tumor regression but caused weight loss in CEA-Tg, but not in wild-type mice. The weight loss was not associated with overt inflammation in the CEA-expressing gastrointestinal tract but was associated with malnutrition, reflected in elevated systemic levels of cytokines linked to anorexia, which could be controlled by the administration of  an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody without compromising efficacy. The apparent relationship between lymphodepleting and myeloablative preconditioning,  efficacy, and off-tumor toxicity of CAR-T cells would necessitate the development of CEA-specific CAR-T cells with improved signaling domains that require less stringent preconditioning for their efficacy. Taken together, these results suggest that CEA-specific CAR-based adoptive T-cell therapy may be effective for  patients with CEA+ solid tumors. Distinguishing the fine line between therapeutic efficacy and off-tumor toxicity would involve further modifications of CAR-T cells and preconditioning regimens."

"1010. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Jul 20;9(1):56. doi: 10.1186/s13045-016-0285-y.","Effective adoptive immunotherapy of triple-negative breast cancer by folate receptor-alpha redirected CAR T cells is influenced by surface antigen expression level.","BACKGROUND: The poor prognosis and the limited efficacy of targeted therapy in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have raised the need for alternative therapies. Recent studies have demonstrated that folate receptor-alpha (FRα) may represent an ideal tumor-associated marker for immunotherapy for TNBC. METHODS: The aim of the present study was to apply a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) approach for the targeting of FRα expressed on TNBC cells and evaluate the  antitumor activity of CAR-engineered T cells in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: We found that human T cells expressing a FRα-specific CAR were potent and specific killers of TNBC cells that express moderate levels of FRα in vitro and significantly inhibited tumor outgrowth following infusion into immunodeficient mice bearing an MDA-MB-231 tumor xenograft. However, the antitumor activity of the FRα CAR T cells was modest when compared to the same CAR T cells applied in an ovarian tumor xenograft model where FRα expression is more abundant. Notably, FRα CAR T cells induced superior tumor regression in vivo against MDA-MB-231 that was engineered for overexpression of FRα. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results show that FRα CAR T cells can mediate antitumor activity against established TNBC tumor, particularly when FRα is expressed at higher levels. These results have significant implications for the pre-selection of patients with high antigen expression levels when utilizing CAR-based adoptive T cell therapies of cancer in future clinical trials."

"1011. Cytotherapy. 2016 Jul;18(7):893-901. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.04.003. Epub 2016 May 17.","Myeloid cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cell concentrates inhibit the expansion of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies have shown promising clinical outcomes, but T-cell yields have been variable. CD19- and GD2-CAR T-cell manufacturing records were reviewed to identify sources of variability. METHODS: CD19-CAR T cells were used to treat 43 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoma and GD2-CAR T cells to treat eight patients with osteosarcoma and three with neuroblastoma. Both types of CAR T cells were manufactured using autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) concentrates and anti-CD3/CD28 beads for T-cell enrichment and simulation. RESULTS: A comparison of the first 6 GD2- and the first 22 CD19-CAR T-cell products manufactured revealed that GD2-CAR T-cell products contained fewer transduced cells than CD19-CAR T-cell products (147 ± 102 × 10(6) vs 1502 ± 1066 × 10(6); P = 0.0059), and their PBMC concentrates contained more monocytes (31.4 ± 12.4% vs 18.5 ± 13.7%; P = 0.019). Among the first 28 CD19-CAR  T-cell products manufactured, four had poor expansion yielding less than 1 × 10(6) transduced T cells per kilogram. When PBMC concentrates from these four patients were compared with the 24 others, PBMC concentrates of poorly expanding  products contained greater quantities of monocytes (39.8 ± 12.9% vs. 15.3 ± 10.8%, P = 0.0014). Among the patients whose CD19-CAR T cells expanded poorly, manufacturing for two patients was repeated using cryopreserved PBMC concentrates but incorporating a monocyte depleting plastic adherence step, and an adequate dose of CAR T cells was produced for both patients. CONCLUSIONS: Variability in CAR T-cell expansion is due, at least in part, to the contamination of the starting PBMC concentrates with monocytes."

"1012. EMBO Mol Med. 2016 Jul 1;8(7):702-11. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201505869. Print 2016 Jul.","Safe engineering of CAR T cells for adoptive cell therapy of cancer using long-term episomal gene transfer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a new successful treatment for  refractory B-cell leukemia. Successful therapeutic outcome depends on long-term expression of CAR transgene in T cells, which is achieved by delivering transgene using integrating gamma retrovirus (RV) or lentivirus (LV). However, uncontrolled RV/LV integration in host cell genomes has the potential risk of causing insertional mutagenesis. Herein, we describe a novel episomal long-term cell engineering method using non-integrating lentiviral (NILV) vector containing a scaffold/matrix attachment region (S/MAR) element, for either expression of transgenes or silencing of target genes. The insertional events of this vector into the genome of host cells are below detection level. CD19 CAR T cells engineered with a NILV-S/MAR vector have similar levels of CAR expression as T cells engineered with an integrating LV vector, even after numerous rounds of cell division. NILV-S/MAR-engineered CD19 CAR T cells exhibited similar cytotoxic capacity upon CD19(+) target cell recognition as LV-engineered T cells and are as effective in controlling tumor growth in vivo We propose that NILV-S/MAR vectors  are superior to current options as they enable long-term transgene expression without the risk of insertional mutagenesis and genotoxicity."

"1013. Int Immunol. 2016 Jul;28(7):355-63. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxw018. Epub 2016 Mar 28.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells strike back.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are engineered molecules designed to endow a polyclonal T-cell population with the ability to recognize tumor-associated surface antigens. In their simplest form, CARs comprise a targeting moiety in the form of a single-chain variable fragment from an antibody connected to various intracellular signaling domains allowing for T-cell activation. This powerful approach combines the specificity of an antibody with the cytotoxic ability of a  T cell. There has been much excitement since early phase trials of CAR-T cells targeting CD19 expressed on B-cell malignancies demonstrated remarkable efficacy  in inducing long-term, stable remissions in otherwise relapsed/refractory disease. Despite these successes, we have just begun to understand the intricacies of CAR biology with efforts underway to utilize this platform in the  treatment of other, previously refractory malignancies. Challenges currently include identification of viable cancer targets, management strategies for potentially severe and irreversible toxicities and overcoming the immunosuppressive nature of the tumor microenvironment. This review will focus on basic CAR structure and function, previous success and new approaches aimed at the broader application of CAR-T-cell therapy."

"1014. Int J Hematol. 2016 Jul;104(1):6-17. doi: 10.1007/s12185-016-2039-6. Epub 2016 Jun 4.","Biology and clinical application of CAR T cells for B cell malignancies.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells have generated broad interest in oncology following a series of dramatic clinical successes in patients with chemorefractory B cell malignancies. CAR therapy now appears to be on the cusp of regulatory approval as a cell-based immunotherapy. We review here the T cell biology and cell engineering research that led to the development of second generation CARs, the selection of CD19 as a CAR target, and the preclinical studies in animal models that laid the foundation for clinical trials targeting CD19+ malignancies. We further summarize the status of CD19 CAR clinical therapy  for non-Hodgkin lymphoma and B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, including their efficacy, toxicities (cytokine release syndrome, neurotoxicity and B cell aplasia) and current management in humans. We conclude with an overview of recent pre-clinical advances in CAR design that argues favorably for the advancement of  CAR therapy to tackle other hematological malignancies as well as solid tumors."

"1015. J Immunol Methods. 2016 Jul;434:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2016.03.005. Epub 2016 Apr 3.","Measuring IL-6 and sIL-6R in serum from patients treated with tocilizumab and/or  siltuximab following CAR T cell therapy.","T cells expressing a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR19) are demonstrating remarkable efficacy in hematologic malignancies. Treatment is often associated with life-threatening cytokine release syndrome (CRS) which can be effectively treated with cytokine blockade using the antibodies, Siltuximab or Tocilizumab respectively targeting IL-6 or the IL-6 receptor. As IL-6 blockade is moving into the clinic for the treatment of CRS as well as IL-6-driven rheumatologic and malignant diseases, clinicians are utilizing serum cytokine panels more frequently to assess the effects of IL-6 inhibitors. It is paramount  to ascertain whether levels obtained are accurate, especially as certain drugs may, in theory, affect quantification. We report the comparative quantification of IL-6 and sIL-6R using Luminex-based immunoassay kits from two vendors. Our results indicate good agreement of the commercial immunoassays in measurement of  IL-6 but disagreement in quantitation of sIL-6R. We found that both Siltuximab and Tocilizumab can interfere with the measurement of their respective ligands using reagents from one vendor but not the second. This has significant implications for the analysis of IL-6 and sIL-6R pharmacokinetics analysis in Siltuximab or Tocilizumab-treated patients. We found that high levels of IL-6 can falsely reduce the measured levels of sIL-6R and high levels of sIL-6R can reduce levels of IL-6 when measured with some commercial assays. These data demonstrate  the importance of assessing the impact of cytokine-blocking agents on accuracy of clinical biomarker assays in other diseases, as drugs targeting TNF-alpha, IL1B,  and IL5 are being used more frequently in a large number of diseases."

"1019. Blood. 2016 Jun 30;127(26):3312-20. doi: 10.1182/blood-2016-02-629063. Epub 2016  May 20.","CD19-targeted CAR T-cell therapeutics for hematologic malignancies: interpreting  clinical outcomes to date.","Adoptive transfer of T cells genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 has produced impressive results in treating patients with B-cell malignancies. Although these CAR-modified T cells target the same antigen, the designs of CARs vary as well as several key aspects of the clinical trials in which these CARs have been studied. It is unclear whether these differences have any impact on clinical outcome and treatment-related toxicities. Herein, we review clinical results reflecting the investigational use of CD19-targeted CAR T-cell therapeutics in patients with B-cell hematologic malignancies, in light of differences in CAR design and production, and outline the limitations inherent in comparing outcomes between studies."

"1020. Blood. 2016 Jun 30;127(26):3321-30. doi: 10.1182/blood-2016-04-703751. Epub 2016  May 20.","Toxicities of chimeric antigen receptor T cells: recognition and management.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells can produce durable remissions in hematologic malignancies that are not responsive to standard therapies. Yet the use of CAR T cells is limited by potentially severe toxicities. Early case reports of unexpected organ damage and deaths following CAR T-cell therapy first  highlighted the possible dangers of this new treatment. CAR T cells can potentially damage normal tissues by specifically targeting a tumor-associated antigen that is also expressed on those tissues. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS), a systemic inflammatory response caused by cytokines released by infused CAR T cells can lead to widespread reversible organ dysfunction. CRS is the most common type of toxicity caused by CAR T cells. Neurologic toxicity due to CAR T cells might in some cases have a different pathophysiology than CRS and requires different management. Aggressive supportive care is necessary for all patients experiencing CAR T-cell toxicities, with early intervention for hypotension and treatment of concurrent infections being essential. Interleukin-6 receptor blockade with tocilizumab remains the mainstay pharmacologic therapy for CRS, though indications for administration vary among centers. Corticosteroids should  be reserved for neurologic toxicities and CRS not responsive to tocilizumab. Pharmacologic management is complicated by the risk of immunosuppressive therapy  abrogating the antimalignancy activity of the CAR T cells. This review describes  the toxicities caused by CAR T cells and reviews the published approaches used to manage toxicities. We present guidelines for treating patients experiencing CRS and other adverse events following CAR T-cell therapy."

"1022. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2016 Jun 20;55(26):7520-4. doi: 10.1002/anie.201601902. Epub 2016 May 4.","Design of Switchable Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells Targeting Breast Cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells have demonstrated promising results against hematological malignancies, but have encountered significant challenges in translation to solid tumors. To overcome these hurdles, we have developed a switchable CAR-T cell platform in which the activity of the engineered cell is controlled by dosage of an antibody-based switch. Herein, we apply this approach  to Her2-expressing breast cancers by engineering switch molecules through site-specific incorporation of FITC or grafting of a peptide neo-epitope (PNE) into the anti-Her2 antibody trastuzumab (clone 4D5). We demonstrate that both switch formats can be readily optimized to redirect CAR-T cells (specific for the corresponding FITC or PNE) to Her2-expressing tumor cells, and afford dose-titratable activation of CAR-T cells ex vivo and complete clearance of the tumor in rodent xenograft models. This strategy may facilitate the application of immunotherapy to solid tumors by affording comparable efficacy with improved safety owing to switch-based control of the CAR-T response."

"1023. Blood. 2016 Jun 16;127(24):2980-90. doi: 10.1182/blood-2015-12-686725. Epub 2016  Apr 26.","Phase 1 studies of central memory-derived CD19 CAR T-cell therapy following autologous HSCT in patients with B-cell NHL.","Myeloablative autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a mainstay of therapy for relapsed intermediate-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL); however, relapse rates are high. In phase 1 studies designed to improve long-term remission rates, we administered adoptive T-cell immunotherapy after HSCT, using ex vivo-expanded autologous central memory-enriched T cells (TCM) transduced with lentivirus expressing CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). We present results from 2 safety/feasibility studies, NHL1 and NHL2, investigating different T-cell populations and CAR constructs. Engineered TCM-derived CD19 CAR T cells were infused 2 days after HSCT at doses of 25 to 200 × 10(6) in a single infusion. In NHL1, 8 patients safely received T-cell products engineered from enriched CD8(+) TCM subsets, expressing a first-generation CD19 CAR containing only the CD3ζ endodomain (CD19R:ζ). Four of 8 patients (50%; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 16-84%) were progression free at both 1 and 2 years. In NHL2, 8 patients safely received T-cell products engineered from enriched CD4(+)  and CD8(+) TCM subsets and expressing a second-generation CD19 CAR containing the CD28 and CD3ζ endodomains (CD19R:28ζ). Six of 8 patients (75%; 95% CI: 35-97%) were progression free at 1 year. The CD4(+)/CD8(+) TCM-derived CD19 CAR T cells (NHL2) exhibited improvement in expansion; however, persistence was ≤28 days, similar to that seen by others using CD28 CARs. Neither cytokine release syndrome nor delayed hematopoietic engraftment was observed in either trial. These data demonstrate the safety and feasibility of CD19 CAR TCM therapy after HSCT. Trials were registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT01318317 and #NCT01815749."

"1024. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Jun 15;44(3):951-9. doi: 10.1042/BST20160037.","Treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) with CAIX CAR-engineered T-cells-a completed study overview.","We studied safety and proof of concept of a phase I/II trial with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). The CAR was based on the G250 mAb that recognized an epitope of carboxy-anhydrase-IX (CAIX). Twelve patients with CAIX+ mRCC were treated in three cohorts with a maximum of 10 daily infusions of 2×10(7) to 2×10(9) CAR T-cells. Circulating CAR T-cells were transiently detectable in all patients and  maintained antigen-specific immune functions following their isolation post-treatment. Blood cytokine profiles mirrored CAR T-cell presence and in vivo  activity. Unfortunately, patients developed anti-CAR T-cell antibodies and cellular immune responses. Moreover, CAR T-cell infusions induced liver enzyme disturbances reaching CTC grades 2-4, which necessitated cessation of treatment in four out of eight patients (cohort 1+2). Examination of liver biopsies revealed T-cell infiltration around bile ducts and CAIX expression on bile duct epithelium, adding to the notion of on-target toxicity. No such toxicities were observed in four patients that were pretreated with G250 mAb (cohort 3). The study was stopped due to the advent of competing treatments before reaching therapeutic or maximum tolerated dose in cohort 3. No clinical responses have been recorded. Despite that, from this trial numerous recommendations for future  trials and their immune monitoring could be formulated, such as choice of the target antigen, format and immunogenicity of receptor and how the latter relates  to peripheral T-cell persistence."

"1025. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2016 Jun 15;3:16015. doi: 10.1038/mto.2016.15. eCollection 2016.","Clinical manufacturing of CAR T cells: foundation of a promising therapy.","The treatment of cancer patients with autologous T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is one of the most promising adoptive cellular therapy approaches. Reproducible manufacturing of high-quality, clinical-grade CAR-T cell products is a prerequisite for the wide application of this technology. Product quality needs to be built-in within every step of the manufacturing process. We summarize herein the requirements and logistics to be considered, as well as the  state of the art manufacturing platforms available. CAR-T cell therapy may be on  the verge of becoming standard of care for a few clinical indications. Yet, many  challenges pertaining to manufacturing standardization and product characterization remain to be overcome in order to achieve broad usage and eventual commercialization of this therapeutic modality."

"1026. Front Microbiol. 2016 Jun 9;7:844. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00844. eCollection 2016.","Cytomegalovirus-Infected Cells Resist T Cell Mediated Killing in an HLA-Recognition Independent Manner.","In order to explore the potential of HLA-independent T cell therapy for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infections, we developed a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) directed against the HCMV encoded glycoprotein B (gB), which is expressed at high levels on the surface of infected cells. T cells engineered with this anti-gB CAR recognized HCMV-infected cells and released cytokines and cytotoxic granules. Unexpectedly, and in contrast to analogous approaches for HIV, Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C virus, we found that HCMV-infected cells were resistant to killing by the CAR-modified T cells. In order to elucidate whether this phenomenon was restricted to the use of CARs, we extended our experiments to T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated recognition of infected cells. To this end we infected fibroblasts with HCMV-strains deficient in viral inhibitors of antigenic peptide presentation and targeted these HLA-class I expressing peptide-loaded infected cells with peptide-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTLs). Despite strong degranulation and cytokine production by the T cells, we again found significant inhibition of lysis of HCMV-infected cells. Impairment of cell lysis became detectable 1 day after HCMV infection and gradually increased during the following 3 days. We thus postulate that viral anti-apoptotic factors, known to inhibit suicide of infected host cells, have evolved additional functions to directly abrogate T cell cytotoxicity. In line with this hypothesis, CAR-T cell cytotoxicity was strongly  inhibited in non-infected fibroblasts by expression of the HCMV-protein UL37x1, and even more so by additional expression of UL36. Our data extend the current knowledge on Betaherpesviral evasion from T cell immunity and show for the first  time that, beyond impaired antigen presentation, infected cells are efficiently protected by direct blockade of cytotoxic effector functions through viral proteins."

"1027. Oncotarget. 2016 Jun 7;7(23):34582-98. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9149.","A role for multiple chimeric antigen receptor-expressing leukocytes in antigen-specific responses to cancer.","While adoptive immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells can induce remission of some tumors, the role of other CAR-modified leukocytes is not well characterized. In this study, we characterize the function of leukocytes including natural killer (NK) cells, macrophages and CAR T cells from transgenic mice expressing a CAR under the control of the pan-hematopoietic  promoter, vav, and determine the ability of these mice to respond to ERB expressing tumors. We demonstrate the anti-tumor functions of leukocytes, including antigen specific cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion. The adoptive transfer of CAR T cells provided a greater survival advantage in the E0771ERB tumor model than their wildtype (WT) counterparts. In addition, CAR NK cells and  CAR T cells also mediated increased survival in the RMAERB tumor model. When challenged with Her2 expressing tumors, F38 mice were shown to mount an effective immune response, resulting in tumor rejection and long-term survival. This was shown to be predominantly dependent on both CD8+ T cells and NK cells. However, macrophages and CD4+ T cells were also shown to contribute to this response. Overall, this study highlights the use of the vav-CAR mouse model as a unique tool to determine the anti-tumor function of various immune subsets, either alone or when acting alongside CAR T cells in adoptive immunotherapy."

"1028. Oncotarget. 2016 Jun 7;7(23):34341-55. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9114.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells secreting anti-PD-L1 antibodies more effectively regress renal cell carcinoma in a humanized mouse model.","Advances in the treatment of metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) have led to improved progression-free survival of many patients; however the therapies are toxic, rarely achieve durable long-term complete responses and are  not curative. Herein we used a single bicistronic lentiviral vector to develop a  new combination immunotherapy that consists of human anti-carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX)-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells engineered to secrete human anti-programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibodies at the tumor site. The local antibody delivery led to marked immune checkpoint blockade. Tumor growth diminished 5 times and tumor weight reduced 50-80% when compared with the anti-CAIX CAR T cells alone in a humanized mice model of ccRCC. The expression of PD-L1 and Ki67 in the tumors decreased and an increase in granzyme B levels was found in CAR T cells. The anti-PD-L1 IgG1 isotype, which is capable of mediating  ADCC, was also able to recruit human NK cells to the tumor site in vivo. These armed second-generation CAR T cells empowered to secrete human anti-PD-L1 antibodies in the ccRCC milieu to combat T cell exhaustion is an innovation in this field that should provide renewed potential for CAR T cell immunotherapy of  solid tumors where limited efficacy is currently seen."

"1029. Blood Cancer J. 2016 Jun 3;6(6):e430. doi: 10.1038/bcj.2016.38.","Improved anti-leukemia activities of adoptively transferred T cells expressing bispecific T-cell engager in mice.","Despite the impressive clinical efficacy of T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-Ts), the current applications of CAR-T cell therapy are limited by major treatment-related toxicity. Thus, safer yet effective alternative approaches must be developed. In this study, we compared CD19 bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE)-transferred T cells that had been transfected by RNA electroporation with CD19 CAR RNA-transferred T cells both in  vitro and in an aggressive Nalm6 leukemia mouse model. BiTEs were secreted from the transferred T cells and enabled both the transferred and bystander T cells to specifically recognize CD19(+) cell lines, with increased tumor killing ability,  prolonged functional persistence, increased cytokine production and potent proliferation compared with the CAR-T cells. More interestingly, in comparison with CD3/CD28 bead-stimulated T cells, T cells that were expanded by a rapid T-cell expansion protocol (REP) showed enhanced anti-tumor activities for both CAR and BiTE RNA-electroporated T cells both in vitro and in a Nalm6 mouse model  (P<0.01). Furthermore, the REP T cells with BiTE RNAs showed greater efficacy in  the Nalm6 leukemia model compared with REP T cells with CAR RNA (P<0.05) and resulted in complete leukemia remission."

"1030. Sci Rep. 2016 Jun 3;6:27130. doi: 10.1038/srep27130.","T cells expressing CD19-specific Engager Molecules for the Immunotherapy of CD19-positive Malignancies.","T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) or the infusion of bispecific T-cell engagers (BITEs) have shown antitumor activity in humans for CD19-positive malignancies. While BITEs redirect the large reservoir of resident  T cells to tumors, CAR T cells rely on significant in vivo expansion to exert antitumor activity. We have shown that it is feasible to modify T cells to secrete solid tumor antigen-specific BITEs, enabling T cells to redirect resident T cells to tumor cells. To adapt this approach to CD19-positive malignancies we now generated T cells expressing secretable, CD19-specific BITEs (CD19-ENG T cells). CD19-ENG T cells recognized tumor cells in an antigen-dependent manner as judged by cytokine production and tumor killing, and redirected bystander T cells to tumor cells. Infusion of CD19-ENG T cells resulted in regression of leukemia or lymphoma in xenograft models and a survival advantage in comparison to control mice. Genetically modified T cells expressing engager molecules may present a promising addition to current CD19-targeted immunotherapies."

"1034. Cancer Immunol Res. 2016 Jun;4(6):541-51. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0263. Epub 2016 Apr 4.","Augmentation of CAR T-cell Trafficking and Antitumor Efficacy by Blocking Protein Kinase A Localization.","Antitumor treatments based on the infusion of T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CAR T cells) are still relatively ineffective for solid tumors, due to the presence of immunosuppressive mediators [such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and  adenosine] and poor T-cell trafficking. PGE2 and adenosine activate protein kinase A (PKA), which then inhibits T-cell receptor (TCR) activation. This inhibition process requires PKA to localize to the immune synapse via binding to  the membrane protein ezrin. We generated CAR T cells that expressed a small peptide called the regulatory subunit I anchoring disruptor (RIAD) that inhibits the association of PKA with ezrin, thus blunting the negative effects of PKA on TCR activation. After exposure to PGE2 or adenosine in vitro, CAR-RIAD T cells showed increased TCR signaling, released more cytokines, and showed enhanced killing of tumor cells compared with CAR T cells. When injected into tumor-bearing mice, the antitumor efficacy of murine and human CAR-RIAD T cells was enhanced compared with that of CAR T cells, due to resistance to tumor-induced hypofunction and increased T-cell infiltration of established tumors. Subsequent in vitro assays showed that both mouse and human CAR-RIAD cells migrated more efficiently than CAR cells did in response to the chemokine CXCL10 and also had better adhesion to various matrices. Thus, the intracellular  addition of the RIAD peptide to adoptively transferred CAR T cells augments their efficacy by increasing their effector function and by improving trafficking into  tumor sites. This treatment strategy, therefore, shows potential clinical application for treating solid tumors. Cancer Immunol Res; 4(6); 541-51. ©2016 AACR."

"1035. Cell Immunol. 2016 Jun-Jul;304-305:49-54. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2016.03.003. Epub 2016 Mar 14.","The novel anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors with humanized scFv (single-chain  variable fragment) trigger leukemia cell killing.","The molecular design of CARs (Chimeric Antigen Receptors), especially the scFv, has been a major part to use of CAR-T cells for targeted adoptive immunotherapy.  To address this issue, we chose a vector backbone encoding a second-generation CAR based on efficacy of a murine scFv-based CAR. Next, we generated a panel of humanized scFvs and tested in vitro for their ability to direct CAR-T cells to specifically lyse, proliferate, and secrete cytokines in response to antigen-bearing targets. Furthermore, in a xenograft model of lymphoma, human T cells expressing humanized scFvs exhibited the same anti-tumor efficacy as those  expressing murine scFv and prolonged survival compared with cells expressing control CAR. Therefore, we uncovered CARs expressing humanized scFv domain that contribute the similar enhanced antileukemic efficacy and survival in tumor bearing mice. These results provide the basis for the future clinical studies of  CAR-T cells transduced with humanized scFv directed to CD19."

"1036. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Jun 1;22(11):2684-96. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1527. Epub 2016 Jan 27.","The Addition of the BTK Inhibitor Ibrutinib to Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells (CART19) Improves Responses against Mantle Cell Lymphoma.","PURPOSE: Responses to therapy with chimeric antigen receptor T cells recognizing  CD19 (CART19, CTL019) may vary by histology. Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) represents a B-cell malignancy that remains incurable despite novel therapies such as the BTK inhibitor ibrutinib, and where data from CTL019 therapy are scant. Using MCL as a model, we sought to build upon the outcomes from CTL019 and from ibrutinib therapy by combining these in a rational manner. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: MCL cell lines and primary MCL samples were combined with autologous or normal donor-derived anti-CD19 CAR T cells along with ibrutinib. The effect of the combination was studied in vitro and in mouse xenograft models. RESULTS: MCL cells strongly activated multiple CTL019 effector functions, and MCL killing by CTL019 was further enhanced in the presence of ibrutinib. In a xenograft MCL model, we showed superior disease control in the CTL019- as compared with ibrutinib-treated mice (median survival not reached vs. 95 days, P  < 0.005) but most mice receiving CTL019 monotherapy eventually relapsed. Therefore, we added ibrutinib to CTL019 and showed that 80% to 100% of mice in the CTL019 + ibrutinib arm and 0% to 20% of mice in the CTL019 arm, respectively, remained in long-term remission (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Combining CTL019 with ibrutinib represents a rational way to incorporate two of the most recent therapies in MCL. Our findings pave the way to a two-pronged therapeutic strategy in patients with MCL and other types of B-cell lymphoma. Clin Cancer Res; 22(11); 2684-96. ©2016 AACR."

"1037. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2016 Jun;11(3):165-74. doi: 10.1007/s11899-016-0316-3.","The Approach to Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Older Patients: Conventional Treatments and Emerging Therapies.","Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) among older adult patients presents significant clinical challenges. As opposed to pediatric populations, in whom long-term outcomes are markedly superior, those for adults remain grim. Nevertheless, younger adults with ALL have experienced a steady improvement in long-term survival in the last few decades. This is significantly different for older ALL patients, for whom long-term outcomes remain poor. Conventional chemotherapies are associated with sub-optimal outcomes and increased toxicity in this population. However, several emerging therapies, including antibody-drug conjugates, bi-specific engagers, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have demonstrated much promise and are either incorporated into the existing therapeutic paradigms or being actively investigated to improve outcomes."

"1038. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Jun;17(6):31. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0401-9.","Checkpoint Inhibitors and Other Immune Therapies for Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma.","OPINION STATEMENT: Treatment for relapsed/refractory (R/R) Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma remains challenging. The introduction of rituximab to B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) treatment significantly improved patients response  rate and survival; however, approximately one third of patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma, the most common B-NHL subtype, still have a relapse or become refractory after first-line therapy. More recently, antibody therapies and small-molecule inhibitors were approved for treating R/R lymphomas; these agents  include brentuximab vedotin, ibrutinib, and idelalisib. Immune checkpoint inhibitors and other immune therapies are emerging treatments currently being evaluated in various clinical trials for their efficacy against lymphoid malignancies. Striking results from these treatment modalities have been observed in solid tumors, and evidence is accumulating to support their use in various lymphomas. The most exciting results from immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy have been seen in patients with R/R Hodgkin lymphoma, in whom the overall response rate has reached 60-80 %. Results in NHL are more similar to those seen  in other solid malignancies, ranging between 20 and 40 %, depending on the histology. Formal approval of these drugs is being awaited, as are the results of combination therapy with checkpoint inhibitors and other treatment modalities, including conventional chemotherapy, small-molecule inhibitors, and other immune  therapies. Although response rates have been promising, attention must be paid to the management of unique immune-related adverse events, which warrant close monitoring in some cases. Identification of biomarkers that predict response or severe adverse events using either the tumor specimen or peripheral blood would aid in selecting patients suited for these types of treatment as well as determining the ideal sequence of treatment within the realm of immune therapies."

"1039. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016 Jun;17(6):28. doi: 10.1007/s11864-016-0406-4.","CAR T Cell Therapy in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and Potential for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.","OPINION STATEMENT: Adoptive transfer of autologous T cells engineered to express  a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) represents a powerful targeted immunotherapy that has shown great promise in some of the most refractory leukemias. CAR-modified T cells directed against CD19 have led the way, setting a high standard with remission rates as high as 90 % in clinical trials for relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Yet, the first demonstration of efficacy was in another disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in which CD19-targeted CAR T cells eradicated bulky, highly refractory disease. Despite early encouraging results, clinical trials in CLL have yielded lower response rates, revealing disease-specific differences in response in this  form of immunotherapy. Ongoing research focused on identifying and overcoming these limitations, promises to improve response rates. Beyond the induction of remission, the transformative impact of engineered T cell therapy lies in its potential for long-term disease control. With longer follow-up and durable T cell persistence now reported, we are closer to answering the question of whether sustained remissions are possible with CAR T cell monotherapy. As might be expected with a highly effective therapy using a single mechanism of action, escape pathways have emerged. Combinatorial approaches are needed to anticipate and prevent this mode of relapse. Lastly, toxicity management is vital to ensure  the safety of this exciting cancer immunotherapy."

"1042. J Immunother. 2016 Jun;39(5):205-17. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000126.","Redirecting T-Cell Specificity to EGFR Using mRNA to Self-limit Expression of Chimeric Antigen Receptor.","Potential for on-target, but off-tissue toxicity limits therapeutic application of genetically modified T cells constitutively expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) from tumor-associated antigens expressed in normal tissue, such  as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Curtailing expression of CAR through  modification of T cells by in vitro-transcribed mRNA species is one strategy to mitigate such toxicity. We evaluated expression of an EGFR-specific CAR coded from introduced mRNA in human T cells numerically expanded ex vivo to clinically  significant numbers through coculture with activating and propagating cells (AaPC) derived from K562 preloaded with anti-CD3 antibody. The density of AaPC could be adjusted to affect phenotype of T cells such that reduced ratio of AaPC  resulted in higher proportion of CD8 and central memory T cells that were more conducive to electrotransfer of mRNA than T cells expanded with high ratios of AaPC. RNA-modified CAR T cells produced less cytokine, but demonstrated similar cytolytic capacity as DNA-modified CAR T cells in response to EGFR-expressing glioblastoma cells. Expression of CAR by mRNA transfer was transient and accelerated by stimulation with cytokine and antigen. Loss of CAR abrogated T-cell function in response to tumor and normal cells expressing EGFR. We describe a clinically applicable method to propagate and modify T cells to transiently express EGFR-specific CAR to target EGFR-expressing tumor cells that  may be used to limit on-target, off-tissue toxicity to normal tissue."

"1043. Leukemia. 2016 Jun;30(6):1355-64. doi: 10.1038/leu.2016.35. Epub 2016 Feb 22.","High-affinity FRβ-specific CAR T cells eradicate AML and normal myeloid lineage without HSC toxicity.","Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive malignancy, and development of new  treatments to prolong remissions is warranted. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies appear promising but on-target, off-tumor recognition of antigen in healthy tissues remains a concern. Here we isolated a high-affinity (HA) folate receptor beta (FRβ)-specific single-chain variable fragment (2.48 nm KD) for optimization of FRβ-redirected CAR T-cell therapy for AML. T cells stably expressing the HA-FRβ CAR exhibited greatly enhanced antitumor activity against FRβ(+) AML in vitro and in vivo compared with a low-affinity FRβ CAR (54.3 nm KD). Using the HA-FRβ immunoglobulin G, FRβ expression was detectable in myeloid-lineage hematopoietic cells; however, expression in CD34(+) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) was nearly undetectable. Accordingly, HA-FRβ CAR T cells lysed  mature CD14(+) monocytes, while HSC colony formation was unaffected. Because of the potential for elimination of mature myeloid lineage, mRNA CAR electroporation for transient CAR expression was evaluated. mRNA-electroporated HA-FRβ CAR T cells retained effective antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. Together, our results highlight the importance of antibody affinity in target protein detection and CAR development and suggest that transient delivery of potent HA-FRβ CAR T cells is highly effective against AML and reduces the risk for long-term myeloid  toxicity."

"1044. Mol Ther. 2016 Jun;24(6):1135-1149. doi: 10.1038/mt.2016.63. Epub 2016 Mar 29.","GD2-specific CAR T Cells Undergo Potent Activation and Deletion Following Antigen Encounter but can be Protected From Activation-induced Cell Death by PD-1 Blockade.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown great promise in the treatment of hematologic malignancies but more variable results in the treatment of solid tumors and the persistence and expansion of CAR T cells within patients has been  identified as a key correlate of antitumor efficacy. Lack of immunological space, functional exhaustion, and deletion have all been proposed as mechanisms that hamper CAR T-cell persistence. Here we describe the events following activation of third-generation CAR T cells specific for GD2. CAR T cells had highly potent immediate effector functions without evidence of functional exhaustion in vitro, although reduced cytokine production reversible by PD-1 blockade was observed after longer-term culture. Significant activation-induced cell death (AICD) of CAR T cells was observed after repeated antigen stimulation, and PD-1 blockade enhanced both CAR T-cell survival and promoted killing of PD-L1(+) tumor cell lines. Finally, we assessed CAR T-cell persistence in patients enrolled in the CARPETS phase 1 clinical trial of GD2-specific CAR T cells in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. Together, these data suggest that  deletion also occurs in vivo and that PD-1-targeted combination therapy approaches may be useful to augment CAR T-cell efficacy and persistence in patients."

"1045. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2016 Jun;13(6):370-83. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2016.36. Epub 2016 Mar 22.","Driving CAR T-cells forward.","The engineered expression of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) on the surface of  T cells enables the redirection of T-cell specificity. Early clinical trials using CAR T cells for the treatment of patients with cancer showed modest results, but the impressive outcomes of several trials of CD19-targeted CAR T cells in the treatment of patients with B-cell malignancies have generated an increased enthusiasm for this approach. Important lessons have been derived from  clinical trials of CD19-specific CAR T cells, and ongoing clinical trials are testing CAR designs directed at novel targets involved in haematological and solid malignancies. In this Review, we discuss these trials and present strategies that can increase the antitumour efficacy and safety of CAR T-cell therapy. Given the fast-moving nature of this field, we only discuss studies with direct translational application currently or soon-to-be tested in the clinical setting."

"1046. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016 Jun;57(6):701-8. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.57.701.","Gene-modified T-cell therapy using chimeric antigen receptors for pediatric hematologic malignancies.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is the generic name for synthetic T cell receptors redirected to tumor-associated antigens. Most CARs consist of an ectodomain (scFv or ligand), a hinge region, a transmembrane domain, and signaling endodomains derived from one or two co-stimulatory molecules (CD28, 4-1BB, etc) and from a CD3-ζ chain. CD19-targeted CAR T cell therapy has achieved major success in the treatment of B cell malignancies. CD19 CAR-T cells elicited  complete remission in 70-90% of adult and pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). CD19 CAR T cell therapy from allogeneic donors including third party donors is a potential option for B-cell malignancies. CAR T cell therapies for myeloma, acute myeloid leukemia, and T-cell leukemia are still under development. Our group is currently preparing a phase I study of CD19 CAR T cell therapy in pediatric and young adult patients  with ALL using a non-viral gene transfer method, the piggyBac-transposon system."

"1048. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2016 May 18;3:16014. doi: 10.1038/mto.2016.14. eCollection 2016.","CAR models: next-generation CAR modifications for enhanced T-cell function.","T cells genetically targeted with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to B-cell malignancies have demonstrated tremendous clinical outcomes. With the proof in principle for CAR T cells as a therapy for B-cell malignancies being established, current and future research is being focused on adapting CAR technology to other  cancers, as well as enhancing its efficacy and/or safety. The modular nature of the CAR, extracellular antigen-binding domain fused to a transmembrane domain and intracellular T-cell signaling domains, allows for optimization by replacement of the various components. These modifications are creating a whole new class of therapeutic CARs. In this review, we discuss the recent major advances in CAR design and how these modifications will impact its clinical application."

"1049. Blood Rev. 2016 May;30(3):233-44. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2015.12.002. Epub 2015 Dec  24.","Targeted therapies for CLL: Practical issues with the changing treatment paradigm.","Chemoimmunotherapy (CIT) such as FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab) has been the standard first-line therapy for younger patients with CLL. In the last few years, several novel targeted therapies have been developed for patients with CLL. These include B-cell receptor (BCR) inhibitors such as Bruton tyrosine  kinase (BTK) inhibitors, PI3 kinase inhibitors, and Syk inhibitors, novel anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies such as ofatumumab and obinutuzumab, and Bcl-2 antagonists such as venetoclax (ABT-199). Strategies targeting the immune system  such as lenalidomide, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, and more recently, checkpoint inhibitors, are in clinical development. Ibrutinib and idelalisib are  already approved for patients with relapsed and refractory CLL. Ibrutinib is also approved for first-line treatment of CLL patients with del(17p). Several ongoing  phase III clinical trials with novel therapies will further define the role of targeted agents in CLL."

"1050. Blood Rev. 2016 May;30(3):157-67. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2015.10.003. Epub 2015 Nov  6.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy: 25years in the making.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy of cancer is generating enormous enthusiasm. Twenty-five years after the concept was first proposed, major advances in molecular biology, virology, and good manufacturing practices (GMP)-grade cell production have transformed antibody-T cell chimeras from a scientific curiosity to a fact of life for academic cellular immunotherapy researchers and, increasingly, for patients. In this review, we explain the preclinical concept, outline how it has been translated to the clinic, and draw lessons from the first years of CAR T cell therapy for the practicing clinician."

"1051. Cancer Gene Ther. 2016 May;23(5):142-8. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2016.14. Epub 2016 Apr 15.","Regional CAR-T cell infusions for peritoneal carcinomatosis are superior to systemic delivery.","Metastatic spread of colorectal cancer (CRC) to the peritoneal cavity is common and difficult to treat, with many patients dying from malignant bowel obstruction. Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) immunotherapy has shown great promise, and we previously reported murine and phase I clinical studies on  regional intrahepatic CAR-T infusion for CRC liver metastases. We are now studying intraperitoneal (IP) delivery of CAR-Ts for peritoneal carcinomatosis. Regional IP infusion of CAR-T resulted in superior protection against carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA+) peritoneal tumors, when compared with systemically infused CAR-Ts. IP CAR-Ts also provided prolonged protection against IP tumor re-challenges and demonstrated an increase in effector memory phenotype  over time. IP CAR-Ts provided protection against tumor growth at distant subcutaneous (SC) sites in association with increases in serum IFNγ levels. Given the challenges posed by immunoinhibitory pathways in solid tumors, we combined IP CAR-T treatment with suppressor cell targeting. High frequencies of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) and regulatory T cells (Treg) were found  within the IP tumors, with MDSC expressing high levels of immunosuppressive PD-L1. Combinatorial IP CAR-T treatment with depleting antibodies against MDSC and Treg further improved efficacy against peritoneal metastases. Our data support further development of combinatorial IP CAR-T immunotherapy for peritoneal malignancies."

"1054. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2016 May;13(5):273-90. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2016.25. Epub 2016 Mar 15.","The future of cancer treatment: immunomodulation, CARs and combination immunotherapy."," In the past decade, advances in the use of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and adoptive cellular therapy to treat cancer by modulating the immune response have  led to unprecedented responses in patients with advanced-stage tumours that would otherwise have been fatal. To date, three immune-checkpoint-blocking mAbs have been approved in the USA for the treatment of patients with several types of cancer, and more patients will benefit from immunomodulatory mAb therapy in the months and years ahead. Concurrently, the adoptive transfer of genetically modified lymphocytes to treat patients with haematological malignancies has yielded dramatic results, and we anticipate that this approach will rapidly become the standard of care for an increasing number of patients. In this Review, we highlight the latest advances in immunotherapy and discuss the role that it will have in the future of cancer treatment, including settings for which testing combination strategies and armoured CAR T cells are recommended."

"1055. Oncologist. 2016 May;21(5):608-17. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0421. Epub 2016 Mar 23.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy for the Community Oncologist.",": The field of cancer immunotherapy has rapidly progressed in the past decade as  several therapeutic modalities have entered into the clinic. One such immunotherapy that has shown promise in the treatment of cancer is the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T lymphocytes. CARs are engineered receptors constructed from antigen recognition regions of antibodies fused to T-cell signaling and costimulatory domains that can be used to reprogram a patients T cells to specifically target tumor cells. CAR T-cell therapy has demonstrated sustained complete responses for some patients with advanced leukemia, and a number of CAR therapies are being evaluated in clinical studies.  CAR T-cell therapy-associated toxicities, including cytokine release syndrome, macrophage activation syndrome, and tumor lysis syndrome, have been observed and  effectively managed in the clinic. In patients with significant clinical responses, sustained B-cell aplasia has also been observed and is a marker of CAR T-cell persistence that might provide long-term disease control. Education on CAR T-cell therapy efficacy and safety management is critical for clinicians and patients who are considering this novel type of treatment. In the present report, the current landscape of CAR T-cell therapy, the effective management of patients undergoing treatment, and which patients are the most suitable candidates for current trials are discussed.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The present report describes the current status of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T lymphocytes as  an immunotherapy for patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. CAR T cells targeting CD19, a protein expressed on many B-cell malignancies, typically induce high complete response rates in patients with B-cell leukemia or lymphoma who have very limited therapeutic options. Recent clinical trial results of CD19 CAR T-cell therapies and the management of CAR T-cell-associated adverse  events are discussed. The present report will therefore inform physicians regarding the efficacy and safety of CAR T cells as a therapy for B-cell malignancies."

"1056. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 May;59(5):468-79. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5023-8. Epub 2016 Mar 11.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for the immunotherapy of patients with EGFR-expressing advanced relapsed/refractory non-small cell lung cancer.","The successes achieved by chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells in hematological malignancies raised the possibility of their use in non-small lung  cancer (NSCLC). In this phase I clinical study (NCT01869166), patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-positive (>50% expression), relapsed/refractory NSCLC received escalating doses of EGFR-targeted CAR-T cell infusions. The EGFR-targeted CAR-T cells were generated from peripheral blood after a 10 to 13-day in vitro expansion. Serum cytokines in peripheral blood and  copy numbers of CAR-EGFR transgene in peripheral blood and in tissue biopsy were  monitored periodically. Clinical responses were evaluated with RECIST1.1 and immune- related response criteria, and adverse events were graded with CTCAE 4.0. The EGFR-targeted CAR-T cell infusions were well-tolerated without severe toxicity. Of 11 evaluable patients, two patients obtained partial response and five had stable disease for two to eight months. The median dose of transfused CAR(+) T cells was 0.97×10(7) cells kg(-1) (interquartile range (IQR), 0.45 to 1.09×10(7) cells kg(-1)). Pathological eradication of EGFR positive tumor cells after EGFR-targeted CAR-T cell treatment can be observed in tumor biopsies, along with the CAR-EGFR gene detected in tumor-infiltrating T cells in all four biopsied patients. The EGFR-targeted CAR-T cell therapy is safe and feasible for  EGFR-positive advanced relapsed/refractory NSCLC."

"1057. Int J Biol Sci. 2016 Apr 28;12(6):718-29. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.14405. eCollection 2016.","New Strategies for the Treatment of Solid Tumors with CAR-T Cells.","Recent years, we have witnessed significant progresses in both basic and clinical studies regarding novel therapeutic strategies with genetically engineered T cells. Modification with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) endows T cells with tumor specific cytotoxicity and thus induce anti-tumor immunity against malignancies. However, targeting solid tumors is more challenging than targeting  B-cell malignancies with CAR-T cells because of the histopathological structure features, specific antigens shortage and strong immunosuppressive environment of  solid tumors. Meanwhile, the on-target/off-tumor toxicity caused by relative expression of target on normal tissues is another issue that should be reckoned.  Optimization of the design of CAR vectors, exploration of new targets, addition of safe switches and combination with other treatments bring new vitality to the  CAR-T cell based immunotherapy against solid tumors. In this review, we focus on  the major obstacles limiting the application of CAR-T cell therapy toward solid tumors and summarize the measures to refine this new cancer therapeutic modality."

"1058. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Apr 22;473(1):73-79. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.03.054. Epub 2016 Mar 15.","Highly efficient gene transfer using a retroviral vector into murine T cells for  preclinical chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cell therapy.","Adoptive immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T (CAR-T) cells has attracted attention as an efficacious strategy for cancer treatment. To prove the efficacy and safety of CAR-T cell therapy, the elucidation of immunological mechanisms underlying it in mice is required. Although a retroviral vector (Rv) is mainly used for the introduction of CAR to murine T cells, gene transduction efficiency is generally less than 50%. The low transduction efficiency causes poor precision in the functional analysis of CAR-T cells. We attempted to improve the Rv gene transduction protocol to more efficiently generate functional CAR-T cells by optimizing the period of pre-cultivation and antibody stimulation. In the improved protocol, gene transduction efficiency to murine T cells was more than 90%. In addition, almost all of the prepared murine T cells expressed CAR after puromycin selection. These CAR-T cells had antigen-specific cytotoxic activity and secreted multiple cytokines by antigen stimulation. We believe that  our optimized gene transduction protocol for murine T cells contributes to the advancement of T cell biology and development of immunotherapy using genetically  engineered T cells."

"1059. Mol Ther Oncolytics. 2016 Apr 20;3:16011. doi: 10.1038/mto.2016.11. eCollection 2016.","Toxicity and management in CAR T-cell therapy.","T cells can be genetically modified to target tumors through the expression of a  chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). Most notably, CAR T cells have demonstrated clinical efficacy in hematologic malignancies with more modest responses when targeting solid tumors. However, CAR T cells also have the capacity to elicit expected and unexpected toxicities including: cytokine release syndrome, neurologic toxicity, on target/off tumor recognition, and anaphylaxis. Theoretical toxicities including clonal expansion secondary to insertional oncogenesis, graft versus host disease, and off-target antigen recognition have not been clinically evident. Abrogating toxicity has become a critical step in the successful application of this emerging technology. To this end, we review the reported and theoretical toxicities of CAR T cells and their management."

"1060. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):412-8. doi: 10.1042/BST20150291.","Armored CAR T-cells: utilizing cytokines and pro-inflammatory ligands to enhance  CAR T-cell anti-tumour efficacy.","Chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells are T-cells that have been genetically modified to express an artificial construct consisting of a synthetic T-cell receptor (TCR) targeted to a predetermined antigen expressed on a tumour. Coupling the T-cell receptor to a CD3ζ signalling domain paved the way for first  generation CAR T-cells that were efficacious against cluster of differentiation (CD)19-expressing B-cell malignancies. Optimization with additional signalling domains such as CD28 or 4-1BB in addition to CD3ζ provided T-cell activation signal 2 and further improved the efficacy and persistence of these second generation CAR T-cells. Third generation CAR T-cells which utilize two tandem costimulatory domains have also been reported. In this review, we discuss a different approach to optimization of CAR T-cells. Through additional genetic modifications, these resultant armored CAR T-cells are typically modified second  generation CAR T-cells that have been further optimized to inducibly or constitutively secrete active cytokines or express ligands that further armor CAR T-cells to improve efficacy and persistence. The choice of the armor agent is based on knowledge of the tumour microenvironment and the roles of other elements of the innate and adaptive immune system. Although there are several variants of  armored CAR T-cells under investigation, here we focus on three unique approaches using interleukin-12 (IL-12), CD40L and 4-1BBL. These agents have been shown to further enhance CAR T-cell efficacy and persistence in the face of a hostile tumour microenvironment via different mechanisms."

"1061. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):406-11. doi: 10.1042/BST20150286.","Efficacy and toxicity management of CAR-T-cell immunotherapy: a matter of responsiveness control or tumour-specificity?","Chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T-cells have demonstrated potent clinical efficacy in patients with haematological malignancies. However, the use  of CAR-T-cells targeting solid tumour-associated antigens (TAAs) has been limited by organ toxicities related to activation of T-cell effector functions through the CAR. Most existing CARs recognize TAAs, which are also found in normal tissues. CAR-T-cell-mediated destruction of normal tissues constitutes a major roadblock to CAR-T-cell therapy, and must be avoided or mitigated. There is a broad range of strategies for modulating antigen responsiveness of CAR-T-cells, with varying degrees of complexity. Some of them might ameliorate the acute and chronic toxicities associated with current CAR constructs. However, further embellishments to CAR therapy may complicate clinical implementation and possibly create new immunogenicity issues. In contrast, the development of CARs targeting  truly tumour-specific antigens might circumvent on-target/off-tumour toxicities without adding additional complexity to CAR-T-cell therapies, but these antigens  have been elusive and may require novel selection strategies for their discovery."

"1062. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):397-405. doi: 10.1042/BST20150280.","Development of chimeric antigen receptors for multiple myeloma.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a haematologic malignancy characterized by the expansion of monoclonal plasma cells in the bone marrow. It is associated with serum or urine monoclonal protein and organ damage including renal failure, anaemia, hypercalcaemia and bone lesions. Despite recent improvements MM still remains an  incurable disease. Previous studies have shown that the adoptive transfer of autologous T-cells modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) is effective in cases of acute and chronic lymphoid leukaemia. However, the adjustment of CAR-T-cell therapy to MM is hindered by the scarcity of antigens specific to the tumour plasma cells. Most candidate targets are shared by healthy tissues, and entail high risks of toxicity. Therefore several strategies have been proposed to regulate CAR-T-cell function as well as to enhance CAR-T-cell specificity against tumour cells. In this article we summarize the surface markers that have been investigated as targets to eliminate MM plasma cells and the MM-specific CARs that have been developed to date. Then we describe the different CAR-T-cell designs that could be applied in the case of MM to circumvent current problems of toxicity."

"1063. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):391-6. doi: 10.1042/BST20150266.","Targeting the tumour profile using broad spectrum chimaeric antigen receptor T-cells.","A variety of distinct and redundant mechanisms support tumour propagation and survival. Tumour parenchyma consists of a variety of geographically diverse cells with varying genetic expression among subclonal populations. Additionally, the solid tumour microenvironment consists of a dense network of stromal, vascular and immune cells altered by a number of mechanisms not only to tolerate but often to enhance cancer growth. The limited spectrum of chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell specificity in the face of this dynamic landscape is one of the greatest challenges facing CAR T-cell therapy for solid tumours. Thus targeting multiple cancer-specific markers simultaneously could result in improved efficacy by broadening the therapeutic reach to include multiple subclonal populations of  the tumour parenchyma as well as elements of the tumour microenvironment. Over the last 10 years, we and others have developed multiplex platforms that target the tumour profile rather than single tumour-restricted antigens. These platforms introduce a new dimension that may be key to the successful development of T-cell therapies for solid tumours and to the mitigation of relapses due to antigen escape."

"1064. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):386-90. doi: 10.1042/BST20150257.","Dynamic imaging for CAR-T-cell therapy.","Chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy is entering the mainstream for the treatment of CD19(+)cancers. As is does we learn more about resistance to therapy and the role, risks and management of toxicity. In solid tumour CAR therapy research the route to the clinic is less smooth with a wealth of challenges facing translating this, potentially hugely valuable, therapeutic option for patients. As we strive to understand our successes, and navigate the challenges,  having a clear understanding of how adoptively transferred CAR-T-cells behavein vivoand in human trials is invaluable. Harnessing reporter gene imaging  to enable detection and tracking of small numbers of CAR-T-cells after adoptive transfer is one way by which we can accomplish this. The compatibility of certain reporter gene systems with tracers available routinely in the clinic makes this approach highly useful for future appraisal of CAR-T-cell success in humans."

"1065. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):377-85. doi: 10.1042/BST20150254.","Homing to solid cancers: a vascular checkpoint in adoptive cell therapy using CAR T-cells.","The success of adoptive T-cell therapies for the treatment of cancer patients depends on transferred T-lymphocytes finding and infiltrating cancerous tissues.  For intravenously transferred T-cells, this means leaving the bloodstream (extravasation) from tumour blood vessels. In inflamed tissues, a key event in extravasation is the capture, rolling and arrest of T-cells inside blood vessels  which precedes transmigration across the vessel wall and entry into tissues. This depends on co-ordinated signalling of selectins, integrins and chemokine receptors on T-cells by their respective ligands which are up-regulated on inflamed blood vessels. Clinical data and experimental studies in mice suggest that tumour blood vessels are anergic to inflammatory stimuli and the recruitment of cytotoxic CD8(+)T-lymphocytes is not very efficient. Interestingly, and somewhat counter-intuitively, anti-angiogenic therapy can promote CD8(+)T-cell infiltration of tumours and increase the efficacy of adoptive CD8(+)T-cell therapy. Rather than inhibit tumour angiogenesis, anti-angiogenic therapy normalizes (matures) tumour blood vessels by promoting pericyte recruitment, increasing tumour blood vessel perfusion and sensitizing tumour blood vessels to  inflammatory stimuli. A number of different approaches are currently being explored to increase recruitment by manipulating the expression of homing-associated molecules on T-cells and tumour blood vessels. Future studies should address whether these approaches improve the efficacy of adoptive T-cell therapies for solid, vascularized cancers in patients."

"1066. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):371-6. doi: 10.1042/BST20150253.","Approaches to augment CAR T-cell therapy by targeting the apoptotic machinery.","Chimaeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells have shown impressive results in patients with B-cell leukaemia. Yet, in patients with lymphoma durable responses  are still rare and heavy preconditioning required. Apoptosis resistance is considered a hallmark of cancer, often conveyed by a halted apoptosis signalling. Tumours regularly skew the balance of the components of the apoptotic machinery either through up-regulating anti-apoptotic proteins or silencing pro-apoptotic ones. Malignant B-cells frequently up-regulate anti-apoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family proteins leading to therapy resistance. CAR T-cells kill tumour cells via apoptosis induction and their efficacy may be affected by the level of  Bcl-2 family proteins. Hence, there is an interesting possibility to increase the effect of CAR T-cell therapy by combining it with apoptosis inhibitor blockade agents. Compounds that inhibit Bcl-2, B-cell lymphoma extra large (Bcl-xL) and Bcl-2-like protein 2 (Bcl-w), can restore execution of apoptosis in tumour cells  or sensitize them to other apoptosis-dependent treatments. Hence, there is a great interest to combine such agents with CAR T-cell therapy to potentiate the effect of CAR T-cell killing. This review will focus on the potential of targeting the apoptotic machinery to sensitize tumour cells to CAR T-cell killing."

"1067. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):356-62. doi: 10.1042/BST20150251.","SHP-1: the next checkpoint target for cancer immunotherapy?","The immense power of the immune system is harnessed in healthy individuals by a range of negative regulatory signals and checkpoints. Manipulating these checkpoints through inhibition has resulted in striking immune-mediated clearance of otherwise untreatable tumours and metastases; unfortunately, not all patients  respond to treatment with the currently available inhibitors of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Combinatorial studies using both anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 demonstrate synergistic effects of targeting multiple checkpoints, paving the way for other immune checkpoints to be targeted. Src homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (SHP-1) is a widely expressed inhibitory protein tyrosine  phosphatase (PTP). In T-cells, it is a negative regulator of antigen-dependent activation and proliferation. It is a cytosolic protein, and therefore not amenable to antibody-mediated therapies, but its role in activation and proliferation makes it an attractive target for genetic manipulation in adoptive  transfer strategies, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells. This review will discuss the potential value of SHP-1 inhibition in future tumour immunotherapy."

"1068. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):349-55. doi: 10.1042/BST20150249.","The integrin αvβ6: a novel target for CAR T-cell immunotherapy?","Immunotherapy of cancer using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells is a rapidly expanding field. CARs are fusion molecules that couple the binding of a tumour-associated cell surface target to the delivery of a tailored T-cell activating signal. Re-infusion of such genetically engineered T-cells to patients with haematological disease has demonstrated unprecedented response rates in Phase I clinical trials. However, such successes have not yet been observed using CAR T-cells against solid malignancies and this is, in part, due to a lack of safe tumour-specific targets. The αvβ6 integrin is strongly up-regulated in multiple solid tumours including those derived from colon, lung, breast, cervix,  ovaries/fallopian tube, pancreas and head and neck. It is associated with poorer  prognosis in several cancers and exerts pro-tumorigenic activities including promotion of tumour growth, migration and invasion. By contrast, physiologic expression of αvβ6 is largely restricted to wound healing. These attributes render this epithelial-specific integrin a highly attractive candidate for targeting using immunotherapeutic strategies such as CAR T-cell adoptive immunotherapy. This mini-review will discuss the role and expression of αvβ6 in cancer, as well as its potential as a therapeutic target."

"1069. Biochem Soc Trans. 2016 Apr 15;44(2):329-32. doi: 10.1042/BST20150240.","Commercialization of cellular immunotherapies for cancer.","Successful commercialization of a cell therapy requires more than proving safety  and efficacy to the regulators. The inherent complexity of cellular products delivers particular manufacturing, logistical and reimbursement hurdles that threaten commercial viability for any therapy with a less than spectacular clinical profile that truly changes the standard of care. This is particularly acute for autologous cell therapies where patients receive bespoke treatments manufactured from a sample of their own cells and where economies of scale, which play an important role in containing the production costs for small molecule and  antibody therapeutics, are highly limited. Nevertheless, the promise of game-changing efficacy, as exemplified by very high levels of complete responses in refractory haematological malignancies, has attracted capital investments on a vast scale, and the attendant pace of technology development provides promising indicators for future clinical and commercial success."

"1070. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Apr 15;22(8):1875-84. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1433.","Making Better Chimeric Antigen Receptors for Adoptive T-cell Therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are engineered fusion proteins constructed from  antigen recognition, signaling, and costimulatory domains that can be expressed in cytotoxic T cells with the purpose of reprograming the T cells to specifically target tumor cells. CAR T-cell therapy uses gene transfer technology to reprogram a patients own T cells to stably express CARs, thereby combining the specificity of an antibody with the potent cytotoxic and memory functions of a T cell. In early-phase clinical trials, CAR T cells targeting CD19 have resulted in sustained complete responses within a population of otherwise refractory patients with B-cell malignancies and, more specifically, have shown complete response rates of approximately 90% in patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Given this clinical efficacy, preclinical development of  CAR T-cell therapy for a number of cancer indications has been actively investigated, and the future of the CAR T-cell field is extensive and dynamic. Several approaches to increase the feasibility and safety of CAR T cells are currently being explored, including investigation into the mechanisms regulating  the persistence of CAR T cells. In addition, numerous early-phase clinical trials are now investigating CAR T-cell therapy beyond targeting CD19, especially in solid tumors. Trials investigating combinations of CAR T cells with immune checkpoint blockade therapies are now beginning and results are eagerly awaited.  This review evaluates several of the ongoing and future directions of CAR T-cell  therapy."

"1071. Arch Pharm Res. 2016 Apr;39(4):437-452. doi: 10.1007/s12272-016-0719-7. Epub 2016 Feb 19.","Current status and regulatory perspective of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell therapeutics.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-T) have emerged as a new modality for cancer immunotherapy due to their potent efficacy against terminal cancers. CAR-Ts are reported to exert higher efficacy than monoclonal antibodies and antibody-drug conjugates, and act via mechanisms distinct from T cell receptor-engineered T cells. These cells are constructed by transducing genes encoding fusion proteins of cancer antigen-recognizing single-chain Fv linked to  intracellular signaling domains of T cell receptors. CAR-Ts are classified as first-, second- and third-generation, depending on the intracellular signaling domain number of T cell receptors. This review covers the current status of CAR-T research, including basic proof-of-concept investigations at the cell and animal  levels. Currently ongoing clinical trials of CAR-T worldwide are additionally discussed. Owing to the lack of existing approved products, several unresolved concerns remain with regard to safety, efficacy and manufacturing of CAR-T, as well as quality control issues. In particular, the cytokine release syndrome is the major side-effect impeding the successful development of CAR-T in clinical trials. Here, we have addressed the challenges and regulatory perspectives of CAR-T therapy."

"1072. Eur J Haematol. 2016 Apr;96(4):389-96. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12602. Epub 2015 Jul 3.","Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for B-cell malignancies: a systematic review of efficacy and safety in clinical trials.","OBJECTIVES: Administration of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified  T cells for B-cell malignancies has been remarkably effective in recent clinical  trials. To investigate the critical parameters affecting efficacy and evaluated the safety of using CAR T cells targeting CD19 in B-lineage malignancies. We performed a systematic review of reported phase I clinical trials using CAR T cells targeting CD19 in B-lineage malignancies. METHODS: We searched Medline and Embase for studies on anti-CD19 CAR-modified T cells in patients with B-cell malignancies in October 2014. Univariate analyses were performed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and a Cox regression model was used to determine the independent prognostic factors of progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: Six trials involving 50 patients were included in this review. After CAR T-cell infusion, the overall response rate was 48% (complete responses in 24%). The 6-month PFS and 1-year PFS were 43% and 27%, respectively. Statistically significant factors favorably influencing PFS were conditioning chemotherapy (P < 0.001), B-cell aplasia (P = 0.040), and durable persistence of CAR T cells (P = 0.013) in univariate analyses. After multivariate analysis, conditioning chemotherapy remained as an independent prognostic factor for PFS. The most common adverse events were fever, hypotension, rigor, fatigue, bacteremia, chill, dyspnea, and headache, but all were temporary and resolved. CONCLUSION: Anti-CD19 CAR-modified T cells have shown therapeutic efficacy in patients with B-lineage malignancies and were well tolerated in most patients. Conditioning chemotherapy is a prerequisite to improve the clinical outcome."

"1073. Immunol Lett. 2016 Apr;172:113-23. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2016.02.014. Epub 2016 Feb 23.","Monoclonal antibodies and immune therapies for adult precursor B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Adult B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) does not share the favorable prognosis seen in pediatric patients with the same disease. Less than 50% of patients experience long-term survival and for those adults over age 60, long-term survival is only 10%. At time of relapse, 5-year prognosis is a dismal  7%. Novel and less toxic agents are urgently needed. The last few years have seen a surge in immune therapies for B-ALL. These agents may target CD19, CD20, CD22,  and less frequently CD52. Expression of these surface markers and the drugs which target them are discussed. Some immune therapies are simple monoclonal antibodies against B lymphocyte markers such as rituximab, ofatumumab, and epratuzumab. Others are in a class of antibody-drug conjugates which link a highly toxic chemotherapy to a monoclonal antibody for targeted delivery, such as inotuzumab and denintuzumab. Finally, novel immune therapies recruit (in the case of bispecific T cell engager [BiTE]) or modify (in the case of chimeric antigen receptor [CAR] T cells) ones own T cells to fight leukemic cells. This article reviews the rationale, clinical data, and toxicity profiles of immune therapies approved or in late stages of development for B-ALL."

"1074. J Clin Oncol. 2016 Apr 1;34(10):1112-21. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2015.64.5929. Epub 2016 Jan 25.","Allogeneic T Cells That Express an Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor Induce Remissions of B-Cell Malignancies That Progress After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem-Cell Transplantation Without Causing Graft-Versus-Host Disease.","PURPOSE: Progressive malignancy is the leading cause of death after allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (alloHSCT). After alloHSCT, B-cell malignancies often are treated with unmanipulated donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs) from the transplant donor. DLIs frequently are not effective at eradicating malignancy and often cause graft-versus-host disease, a potentially lethal immune response against normal recipient tissues. METHODS: We conducted a clinical trial of allogeneic T cells genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting the B-cell antigen CD19. Patients with B-cell malignancies that had progressed after alloHSCT received a single infusion of CAR T cells. No chemotherapy or other therapies were administered. The T cells were obtained from each recipients alloHSCT donor. RESULTS: Eight of 20 treated patients obtained remission, which included six complete remissions (CRs) and two partial remissions. The response rate was highest for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with four of five patients obtaining minimal residual disease-negative CR. Responses also occurred in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoma. The longest ongoing CR was more than 30 months in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. New-onset acute graft-versus-host disease after CAR T-cell infusion developed in none of the patients. Toxicities included fever, tachycardia, and hypotension. Peak blood CAR T-cell levels were higher in patients who obtained remissions than in those who did not. Programmed  cell death protein-1 expression was significantly elevated on CAR T cells after infusion. Presence of blood B cells before CAR T-cell infusion was associated with higher postinfusion CAR T-cell levels. CONCLUSION: Allogeneic anti-CD19 CAR T cells can effectively treat B-cell malignancies that progress after alloHSCT. The findings point toward a future when antigen-specific T-cell therapies will play a central role in alloHSCT."

"1076. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):370-8. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5036-3. Epub 2016 Mar 22.","Adoptive therapy with CAR redirected T cells for hematological malignancies.","The survival of patients with hematological malignancies has been significantly improved due to the development of new therapeutic agents. However, relapse remains a major matter for concern. Recently, T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) were reported to show unprecedented responses in a range of hematological malignancies. The persistence of the CAR-T cell can last for years and tends toward long-term antitumor memory by which relapses can be effectively prevented. The primary side effects that appear in most clinical trials are cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity. However, these symptoms can be treated and reversed. In this review, we describe CAR structure and function and summarize recent advances in CAR-T cell therapy in hematological malignancies."

"1077. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):349-59. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5034-5. Epub 2016 Mar 24.","Spotlight on chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cell research and clinical trials in China.","T cell mediated adoptive immune response has been characterized as the key to anti-tumor immunity. Scientists around the world including in China, have been trying to harness the power of T cells against tumors for decades. Recently, the  biosynthetic chimeric antigen receptor engineered T cell (CAR-T) strategy was developed and exhibited encouraging clinical efficacy, especially in hematological malignancies. Chimeric antigen receptor research reports began in 2009 in China according to our PubMed search results. Clinical trials have been ongoing in China since 2013 according to the trial registrations on clinicaltrials. gov.. After years of assiduous efforts, research and clinical scientists in China have made their own achievements in the CAR-T therapy field.  In this review, we aim to highlight CAR-T research and clinical trials in China,  to provide an informative reference for colleagues in the field."

"1078. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):379-85. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5035-4. Epub 2016 Mar 24.","An analytical biomarker for treatment of patients with recurrent B-ALL after remission induced by infusion of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells.","Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T-19) cells have emerged as a powerful targeted immunotherapy for B-cell lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia with a remarkable clinical response in recent trials. Nonetheless, few data are available on the subsequent clinical monitoring and treatment of the patients, especially those with disease recurrence after CAR-T-19 cell infusion. Here, we analyzed three patients who survived after our phase I clinical trial and who were studied by means of biomarkers reflecting persistence of CAR-T-19 cells in vivo and predictive factors directing further treatment. One patient achieved 9-week sustained complete remission and subsequently received an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Another patient who showed relapse after 20 weeks without detectable leukemia in the cerebrospinal fluid after CAR-T-19 cell  treatment was able to achieve a morphological remission under the influence of stand-alone low-dose chemotherapeutic agents. The third patient gradually developed extensive extramedullary involvement in tissues with scarce immune- cell infiltration during a long period of hematopoietic remission after CAR-T-19  cell therapy. Long-term and discontinuous increases in serum cytokines (mainly interleukin 6 and C-reactive protein) were identified in two patients (Nos. 1 and 6) even though only a low copy number of CAR molecules could be detected in their peripheral blood. This finding was suggestive of persistent functional activity of CAR-T-19 cells. Combined analyses of laboratory biomarkers with their clinical manifestations before and after salvage treatment showed that the persistent immunosurveillance mediated by CAR-T-19 cells would inevitably potentiate the leukemia-killing effectiveness of subsequent chemotherapy in patients who showed  relapse after CAR-T-19-induced remission."

"1079. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):360-9. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5025-6. Epub 2016 Mar 11.","Treatment of solid tumors with chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells: current status and future prospects.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are artificial recombinant receptors that generally combine the antigen-recognition domain of a monoclonal antibody with T  cell activation domains. Recent years have seen great success in clinical trials  employing CD19-specific CAR-T cell therapy for B cell leukemia. Nevertheless, solid tumors remain a major challenge for CAR-T cell therapy. This review summarizes the preclinical and clinical studies on the treatment of solid tumors  with CAR-T cells. The major hurdles for the success of CAR-T and the novel strategies to address these hurdles have also been described and discussed."

"1080. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):340-8. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5027-4. Epub 2016 Mar 11.","Hurdles of CAR-T cell-based cancer immunotherapy directed against solid tumors.","Recent reports on the impressive efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells against hematologic malignancies have inspired oncologists to extend these efforts for the treatment of solid tumors. Clinical trials of CAR-T-based cancer immunotherapy for solid tumors showed that the efficacies are  not as remarkable as in the case of hematologic malignancies. There are several challenges that researchers must face when treating solid cancers with CAR-T cells, these include choosing an ideal target, promoting efficient trafficking and infiltration, overcoming the immunosuppressive microenvironment, and avoiding associated toxicity. In this review, we discuss the obstacles imposed by solid tumors on CAR-T cell-based immunotherapy and strategies adopted to improve the therapeutic potential of this approach. Continued investigations are necessary to improve therapeutic outcomes and decrease the adverse effects of CAR-T cell therapy in patients with solid malignancies in the future."

"1081. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):333-9. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5026-5. Epub 2016 Mar 11.","Establishing guidelines for CAR-T cells: challenges and considerations.","T cells, genetically modified by chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T), are endowed  with specificity to a desired antigen and are cytotoxic to cells expressing the targeted antigen. CAR-T-based cancer immunotherapy is a promising therapy for curing hematological malignancy, such as acute lymphoid leukemia, and is promising for extending their efficacy to defeat solid tumors. To date, dozens of different CAR-T cells have been evaluated in clinical trials to treat tumors; this necessitates the establishment of guidelines for the production and application of CAR-T cells. However, it is challenging to standardize CAR-T cancer therapy because it involves a combination of gene therapy and cell therapy. In this review, we compare the existing guidelines for CAR-T cells and discuss the challenges and considerations for establishing guidance for CAR-T-based cancer immunotherapy."

"1082. Sci China Life Sci. 2016 Apr;59(4):386-97. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-5024-7. Epub 2016 Mar 7.","Phase 1 clinical trial demonstrated that MUC1 positive metastatic seminal vesicle cancer can be effectively eradicated by modified Anti-MUC1 chimeric antigen receptor transduced T cells.","Recent progress in chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T cell) technology in cancer therapy is extremely promising, especially in the treatment  of patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In contrast, due to the hostile immunosuppressive microenvironment of a solid tumor, CAR T-cell accessibility and survival continue to pose a considerable challenge, which leads to their limited therapeutic efficacy. In this study, we constructed two anti-MUC1 CAR-T cell lines. One set of CAR-T cells contained SM3 single chain variable fragment (scFv) sequence specifically targeting the MUC1 antigen and co-expressing interleukin (IL) 12 (named SM3-CAR). The other CAR-T cell line carried the SM3 scFv sequence modified to improve its binding to MUC1 antigen (named pSM3-CAR) but did not co-express IL-12. When those two types of CAR-T cells were injected intratumorally into two independent metastatic lesions of the same MUC1(+) seminal vesicle cancer patient as part of an interventional treatment strategy, the initial results indicated no side-effects of the MUC1 targeting CAR-T cell approach, and patient serum cytokines responses were positive. Further evaluation showed that pSM3-CAR effectively caused tumor necrosis, providing new options for improved CAR-T therapy in solid tumors."

"1083. Semin Oncol. 2016 Apr;43(2):291-9. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2016.02.006. Epub 2016 Feb 9.","Improving therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with chimeric antigen receptor  T cells.","Adoptive cell immunotherapy for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has heralded a new era of synthetic biology. The infusion of genetically engineered, autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells directed against CD19 expressed by normal and malignant B cells represents a novel approach to cancer therapy. The results of recent clinical trials of CAR T cells in relapsed  and refractory CLL have demonstrated long-term disease-free remissions, underscoring the power of harnessing and redirecting the immune system against cancer. This review will briefly summarize T-cell therapies in development for CLL disease. We discuss the role of T-cell function and phenotype, T-cell culture optimization, CAR design, and approaches to potentiate the survival and anti-tumor effects of infused lymphocytes. Future efforts will focus on improving the efficacy of CAR T cells for the treatment of CLL and incorporating adoptive cell immunotherapy into standard medical management of CLL."

"1084. PLoS One. 2016 Mar 31;11(3):e0152196. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0152196. eCollection 2016.","An Optimized GD2-Targeting Retroviral Cassette for More Potent and Safer Cellular Therapy of Neuroblastoma and Other Cancers.","Neuroblastoma is the commonest extra cranial solid cancer of childhood. Despite escalation of treatment regimens, a significant minority of patients die of their disease. Disialoganglioside (GD2) is consistently expressed at high-levels in neuroblastoma tumors, which have been targeted with some success using therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. GD2 is also expressed in a range of other cancer but with the exception of some peripheral nerves is largely absent from non-transformed tissues. Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CARs) are artificial type I  proteins which graft the specificity of a monoclonal antibody onto a T-cell. Clinical data with early CAR designs directed against GD2 have shown some promise in Neuroblastoma. Here, we describe a GD2-targeting CAR retroviral cassette, which has been optimized for CAR T-cell persistence, efficacy and safety."

"1085. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Mar 16;9:27. doi: 10.1186/s13045-016-0256-3.","Anti-proliferative effects of T cells expressing a ligand-based chimeric antigen  receptor against CD116 on CD34(+) cells of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is a fatal, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm of early childhood. Patients with JMML have mutually exclusive genetic abnormalities in granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) receptor (GMR, CD116) signaling pathway. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is currently the only curative treatment option for JMML; however, disease recurrence is a major cause of treatment failure. We investigated adoptive immunotherapy using GMR-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) for JMML. METHODS: We constructed a novel CAR capable of binding to GMR via its ligand, GM-CSF, and generated piggyBac transposon-based GMR CAR-modified T cells from three healthy donors and two patients with JMML. We further evaluated the anti-proliferative potential of GMR CAR T cells on leukemic CD34(+) cells from six patients with JMML (two NRAS mutations, three PTPN11 mutations, and one monosomy 7), and normal CD34(+) cells. RESULTS: GMR CAR T cells from healthy donors suppressed the cytokine-dependent growth of MO7e cells, but not the growth of K562 and Daudi cells. Co-culture of healthy GMR CAR T cells with CD34(+) cells of five patients with JMML at effector to target ratios of 1:1 and 1:4 for 2 days significantly decreased total colony growth, regardless of genetic abnormality. Furthermore, GMR CAR T cells from a non-transplanted patient and a transplanted patient inhibited the proliferation of respective JMML CD34(+) cells at onset to a degree comparable to healthy GMR CAR T cells. Seven-day co-culture of GMR CAR T cells resulted in a marked suppression of JMML CD34(+) cell proliferation, particularly CD34(+)CD38(-) cell  proliferation stimulated with stem cell factor and thrombopoietin on AGM-S3 cells. Meanwhile, GMR CAR T cells exerted no effects on normal CD34(+) cell colony growth. CONCLUSIONS: Ligand-based GMR CAR T cells may have anti-proliferative effects on  stem and progenitor cells in JMML."

"1086. Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 15;76(6):1578-90. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-15-2524.","A Chimeric Switch-Receptor Targeting PD1 Augments the Efficacy of Second-Generation CAR T Cells in Advanced Solid Tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified adoptive T-cell therapy has been successfully applied to the treatment of hematologic malignancies, but faces many challenges in solid tumors. One major obstacle is the immune-suppressive effects  induced in both naturally occurring and genetically modified tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) by inhibitory receptors (IR), namely PD1. We hypothesized that  interfering with PD1 signaling would augment CAR T-cell activity against solid tumors. To address this possibility, we introduced a genetically engineered switch receptor construct, comprising the truncated extracellular domain of PD1 and the transmembrane and cytoplasmic signaling domains of CD28, into CAR T cells. We tested the effect of this supplement, PD1CD28, on human CAR T cells targeting aggressive models of human solid tumors expressing relevant tumor antigens. Treatment of mice bearing large, established solid tumors with PD1CD28  CAR T cells led to significant regression in tumor volume due to enhanced CAR TIL infiltrate, decreased susceptibility to tumor-induced hypofunction, and attenuation of IR expression compared with treatments with CAR T cells alone or PD1 antibodies. Taken together, our findings suggest that the application of PD1CD28 to boost CAR T-cell activity is efficacious against solid tumors via a variety of mechanisms, prompting clinical investigation of this potentially promising treatment modality."

"1087. Cancers (Basel). 2016 Mar 15;8(3). pii: E36. doi: 10.3390/cancers8030036.","Different Subsets of T Cells, Memory, Effector Functions, and CAR-T Immunotherapy.","This review is focused on different subsets of T cells: CD4 and CD8, memory and effector functions, and their role in CAR-T therapy--a cellular adoptive immunotherapy with T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptor. The CAR-T cells  recognize tumor antigens and induce cytotoxic activities against tumor cells. Recently, differences in T cell functions and the role of memory and effector T cells were shown to be important in CAR-T cell immunotherapy. The CD4⁺ subsets (Th1, Th2, Th9, Th17, Th22, Treg, and Tfh) and CD8⁺ memory and effector subsets differ in extra-cellular (CD25, CD45RO, CD45RA, CCR-7, L-Selectin [CD62L], etc.); intracellular markers (FOXP3); epigenetic and genetic programs; and metabolic pathways (catabolic or anabolic); and these differences can be modulated to improve CAR-T therapy. In addition, CD4⁺ Treg cells suppress the efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy, and different approaches to overcome this suppression are discussed in this review. Thus, next-generation CAR-T immunotherapy can be improved, based on our knowledge of T cell subsets functions, differentiation, proliferation, and signaling pathways to generate more active CAR-T cells against tumors."

"1090. Ann Hematol. 2016 Mar;95(4):563-73. doi: 10.1007/s00277-015-2585-7. Epub 2016 Jan 12.","Tumor lysis syndrome in the era of novel and targeted agents in patients with hematologic malignancies: a systematic review.","Effective new treatments are now available for patients with hematologic malignancies. However, their propensity to cause tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) has not been systematically examined. A literature search identified published Phase  I-III clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies (otlertuzumab, brentuximab, obinutuzumab, ibritumomab, ofatumumab); tyrosine kinase inhibitors (alvocidib [flavopiridol], dinaciclib, ibrutinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, idelalisib, venetoclax [ABT-199]); proteasome inhibitors (oprozomib, carfilzomib); chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells; and the proapoptotic agent lenalidomide. Abstracts from major congresses were also reviewed. Idelalisib and ofatumumab had no reported TLS. TLS incidence was ≤5 % with brentuximab vedotin (for anaplastic  large-cell lymphoma), carfilzomib and lenalidomide (for multiple myeloma), dasatinib (for acute lymphoblastic leukemia), and oprozomib (for various hematologic malignancies). TLS incidences were 8.3 and 8.9 % in two trials of venetoclax (for chronic lymphocytic leukemia [CLL]) and 10 % in trials of CAR T cells (for B-cell malignancies) and obinutuzumab (for non-Hodgkin lymphoma). TLS  rates of 15 % with dinaciclib and 42 and 53 % with alvocidib (with sequential cytarabine and mitoxantrone) were seen in trials of acute leukemias. TLS mitigation was employed routinely in clinical trials of alvocidib and lenalidomide. However, TLS mitigation strategies were not mentioned or stated only in general terms for many studies of other agents. The risk of TLS persists  in the current era of novel and targeted therapy for hematologic malignancies and was seen to some extent with most agents. Our findings underscore the importance  of continued awareness, risk assessment, and prevention to reduce this serious potential complication of effective anticancer therapy."

"1091. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2016 Mar;29(1):100-110. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2016.08.009. Epub 2016 Aug 12.","Present and future of personalized medicine in CLL.","Medicine has been personalized (i.e. centred in persons) since its foundation.  Recently, however, the term personalized medicine (or, better, precision medicine) has been introduced to define a form of medicine that uses information about a persons genes, proteins, and environment to prevent, diagnose, and treat disease. This concept has gained momentum thanks to next-generation-sequencing (NGS) techniques that allow identification of molecular characteristics unique to the patient and to the tumour. It is hoped that NGS will not only contribute to a better understanding of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), but will identify disease subsets that could benefit from specific treatment interventions. Recent advances in diagnosis (e.g. high-resolution immunophenotyping, markers of genetic abnormalities), prognosis (e.g. biomarkers), response predictors [e.g. del(17p)/TP53 mutations even at subclonal level], treatment (e.g. BCR signalling inhibitors, BCL2 antagonists, CAR-T cells) and methods to evaluate minimal residual disease constitute good examples of tools facilitating personalized management of patients with CLL."

"1092. Br J Haematol. 2016 Mar;172(5):685-98. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13889. Epub 2016 Jan 20.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) therapy for multiple myeloma.","The introduction of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells has revolutionized immunotherapy and cancer treatment as a whole. However, so far, clinical efficacy has only been demonstrated for CD19-positive B cell lymphomas.  For Multiple Myeloma (MM), the second most common haematological malignancy, there are currently no clinical results supporting the usefulness of the adoptive transfer of CAR-modified T cells. This might be related to the fact that an ideal surface target has not yet been identified or the presence of strong local immunosuppression in the tumour microenvironment, which is a hallmark of MM. In this review, we provide a comprehensive overview of promising target molecules for CAR T cell approaches in MM and we outline a number of ways in which the local immunosuppression in MM can be overcome. By providing a strategy for the design of CAR T cell treatments for MM we hope to transform this new therapeutic  approach into a valuable tool within the therapeutic armamentarium for MM."

"1093. Cancer Immunol Res. 2016 Mar;4(3):259-68. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0060. Epub 2016 Jan 28.","CAR T Cells Targeting Podoplanin Reduce Orthotopic Glioblastomas in Mouse Brains.","Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and lethal primary malignant brain tumor in adults with a 5-year overall survival rate of less than 10%. Podoplanin (PDPN) is a type I transmembrane mucin-like glycoprotein, expressed in the lymphatic endothelium. Several solid tumors overexpress PDPN, including the mesenchymal type of GBM, which has been reported to present the worst prognosis among GBM subtypes. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-transduced T cells can recognize predefined tumor surface antigens independent of MHC restriction, which is often  downregulated in gliomas. We constructed a lentiviral vector expressing a third-generation CAR comprising a PDPN-specific antibody (NZ-1-based single-chain variable fragment) with CD28, 4-1BB, and CD3ζ intracellular domains. CAR-transduced peripheral blood monocytes were immunologically evaluated by calcein-mediated cytotoxic assay, ELISA, tumor size, and overall survival. The generated CAR T cells were specific and effective against PDPN-positive GBM cells in vitro. Systemic injection of the CAR T cells into an immunodeficient mouse model inhibited the growth of intracranial glioma xenografts in vivo. CAR T-cell  therapy that targets PDPN would be a promising adoptive immunotherapy to treat mesenchymal GBM."

"1094. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2016 Mar;14(3 Suppl 4):1-23.","Novel Approaches for the Interim Management of Relapsed/Refractory Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia: A Case-Study Compendium.","The heterogeneous hematologic malignancy acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) represents one of the more complicated cancers in adults. Despite the large number of agents available to treat this disease, there remains no standard of care for either the frontline or relapsed/refractory settings. Although the rate  of response to initial induction therapy is high, at least half of patients experience relapsed or refractory disease. Selection of salvage therapy may rely  on investigational strategies in clinical trials. The goal of frontline or salvage therapy is to reduce the tumor burden so that patients can proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplant, the only treatment considered potentially curative for ALL. However, the different combination chemotherapy regimens are associated with unpredictable responses and can result in myelosuppression and other toxicities. The need for improved treatment alternatives, especially in the salvage setting, has been recently addressed with the introduction of several new therapies. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a form of immunotherapy. T cells harvested from the patient are genetically engineered to express a receptor that targets a tumor-specific antigen on the tumor cell surface. Patients awaiting CAR T-cell therapy, like those awaiting stem cell transplant, often require a “bridge” treatment during the interim. A liposomal formulation of vincristine has been associated with durable responses in relapsed disease, but with less myelosuppression and neurotoxicity than standard vincristine. Other novel agents include blinatumomab and inotuzumab ozogamicin."

"1095. Oncotarget. 2016 Mar 1;7(9):10638-49. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.7079.","Construction of a new anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor and the anti-leukemia function study of the transduced T cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) transduced T cells have been used to efficiently  kill the target tumor cells depending on the single chain variable fragment (scFv) against the specific tumor associated antigen. Here we show the high specific cytotoxicity of the CAR-T cells with very low effector to target cell (E:T) ratio owing to the CD19-scFv, which was constructed in our laboratory and proved to be highly effective in our previous study. Four plasmids containing three generation of CAR were constructed by cloning the CD19-CAR fragment into the lentiviral vector pCDH. CD3 positive T cells were successfully transduced and the CAR protein expression was confirmed by flow cytometry and Western blot. When cocultured with CD19 positive leukemia cell line Nalm-6 cells, CAR-T cells showed specific cytotoxicity: the percentage of target cells decreased to 0 in 24 hours; IL-2, IFN-γ and TNF-α produced in cocultured supernatants increased obviously; and the cytotoxicity reached more than 80%, still remarkable even when the E:T ratio was as low as 1:4. Dynamic change of cell interaction between CAR-T and leukemia cells was visually tracked by using living cells workstation for the first time. A NOD/SCID B-ALL murine model was established using Nalm-6 cells inoculation with a morbidity rate of 100%, and the survival time was prolonged statistically with CAR-T cell treatment. These data demonstrate that the CAR-T cells we prepared could be a promising treatment strategy for CD19 positive tumor diseases."

"1098. Cancer Discov. 2016 Feb;6(2):133-46. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-15-0583. Epub 2015 Oct 26.","Mesothelin-Targeted CARs: Driving T Cells to Solid Tumors.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are synthetic receptors that target T cells to cell-surface antigens and augment T-cell function and persistence. Mesothelin is  a cell-surface antigen implicated in tumor invasion, which is highly expressed in mesothelioma and lung, pancreas, breast, ovarian, and other cancers. Its low-level expression in mesothelia, however, commands thoughtful therapeutic interventions. Encouragingly, recent clinical trials evaluating active immunization or immunoconjugates in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma or mesothelioma have shown responses without toxicity. Altogether, these findings and preclinical CAR therapy models using either systemic or regional T-cell delivery argue favorably for mesothelin CAR therapy in multiple solid tumors.SIGNIFICANCE: Recent success obtained with adoptive transfer of CAR T cells targeting CD19 in patients with refractory hematologic malignancies has generated much enthusiasm for T-cell engineering and raises the prospect of implementing similar strategies for solid tumors. Mesothelin is expressed in a wide range and a high percentage of solid tumors, which we review here in detail. Mesothelin CAR therapy has the potential to treat multiple solid malignancies."

"1099. Discov Med. 2016 Feb;21(114):125-33.","Advances in cancer immunology and cancer immunotherapy.","After decades of setbacks, cancer immunology is living its Golden Age. Recent advances in cancer immunology have provided new therapeutic approaches to treat cancer. The objective clinical response observed in patients treated with antibodies that block the immune checkpoints, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell-death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell-death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) pathways, has led to their FDA approval for the treatment of melanoma in 2011 and in 2014, respectively. The anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab has received the FDA-approval in March 2015 for squamous lung cancer treatment. In addition, antibodies targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 have demonstrated their efficacy and safety in additional tumors, including non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), bladder cancer, and Hodgkins lymphoma. Almost at the same time, the field of adoptive cell transfer has exploded. The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T technology has provided strong evidence of efficacy in the treatment of B cell malignancies, and different T cell based treatments are currently under investigation for different types of tumors. In this review we will discuss the latest advances in cancer immunology and immunotherapy as well as new treatments now under development in the clinic and potential strategies that have shown promising results in preclinical models."

"1100. Leukemia. 2016 Feb;30(2):492-500. doi: 10.1038/leu.2015.247. Epub 2015 Sep 15.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells derived from defined CD8+ and CD4+ subsets confer superior antitumor reactivity in vivo.","Adoptive T-cell therapy with gene-modified T cells expressing a tumor-reactive T-cell receptor or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a rapidly growing field of  translational medicine and has shown success in the treatment of B-cell malignancies and solid tumors. In all reported trials, patients have received T-cell products comprising random compositions of CD4(+) and CD8(+) naive and memory T cells, meaning that each patient received a different therapeutic agent. This variation may have influenced the efficacy of T-cell therapy, and complicates comparison of outcomes between different patients and across trials.  We analyzed CD19 CAR-expressing effector T cells derived from different subsets (CD4(+)/CD8(+) naive, central memory, effector memory). T cells derived from each of the subsets were efficiently transduced and expanded, but showed clear differences in effector function and proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Combining the most potent CD4(+) and CD8(+) CAR-expressing subsets, resulted in synergistic antitumor effects in vivo. We show that CAR-T-cell products generated from defined T-cell subsets can provide uniform potency compared with products derived from unselected T cells that vary in phenotypic composition. These findings have important implications for the formulation of T-cell products for adoptive therapies."

"1101. Mol Ther. 2016 Feb;24(2):354-363. doi: 10.1038/mt.2015.199. Epub 2015 Oct 30.","Characterization and Functional Analysis of scFv-based Chimeric Antigen Receptors to Redirect T Cells to IL13Rα2-positive Glioma.","Immunotherapy with T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is an attractive approach to improve outcomes for patients with glioblastoma (GBM). IL13Rα2 is expressed at a high frequency in GBM but not in normal brain, making it a promising CAR T-cell therapy target. IL13Rα2-specific CARs generated up to date contain mutated forms of IL13 as an antigen-binding domain. While these CARs target IL13Rα2, they also recognize IL13Rα1, which is broadly expressed. To overcome this limitation, we constructed a panel of IL13Rα2-specific CARs that contain the IL13Rα2-specific single-chain variable fragment (scFv) 47 as an antigen binding domain, short or long spacer regions, a transmembrane domain, and endodomains derived from costimulatory molecules and CD3.ζ (IL13Rα2-CARs). IL13Rα2-CAR T cells recognized IL13Rα2-positive target cells in coculture and cytotoxicity assays with no cross-reactivity to IL13Rα1. However, only IL13Rα2-CAR T cells with a short spacer region produced IL2 in an antigen-dependent fashion. In vivo, T cells expressing IL13Rα2-CARs with short spacer regions and CD28.ζ, 41BB.ζ, and CD28.OX40.ζ endodomains had potent anti-glioma activity conferring a significant survival advantage in comparison to mice that received control T cells. Thus, IL13Rα2-CAR T cells hold the promise to improve current IL13Rα2-targeted immunotherapy approaches for GBM and other IL13Rα2-positive malignancies."

"1102. Semin Immunol. 2016 Feb;28(1):3-9. doi: 10.1016/j.smim.2015.12.001. Epub 2016 Jan 12.","Chimeric antigen receptor-redirected T cells return to the bench.","While the clinical progress of chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) immunotherapy has garnered attention to the field, our understanding of the biology of these chimeric molecules is still emerging. Our aim within this review is to bring to light the mechanistic understanding of these multi-modular receptors and how these individual components confer particular properties to CAR-Ts. In addition, we will discuss extrinsic factors that can be manipulated to influence CAR-T performance such as choice of cellular population, culturing conditions and additional modifications that enhance their activity particularly  in solid tumors. Finally, we will also consider the emerging toxicity associated  with CAR-Ts. By breaking apart the CAR and examining the role of each piece, we can build a better functioning cellular vehicle for optimized treatment of cancer patients."

"1103. Semin Immunol. 2016 Feb;28(1):64-72. doi: 10.1016/j.smim.2015.11.003. Epub 2015 Nov 25.","Reprogramming the tumor microenvironment to enhance adoptive cellular therapy.","The frontiers of cancer immunotherapy are extending in terms of both the range of cancer types that can potentially be targeted and the types of therapeutics that  are in clinical development. The use of adoptive cellular therapy (ACT) and its derivative, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, is currently limited to hematological malignancies and immunogenic cancers such as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. Although ACT utilizing ex vivo expanded tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) or engineered CAR/TCR T cells have undergone clinical trials for other solid cancers, their efficacy to date has been limited. This may be due, in part, to the immunosuppressive nature of the tumor microenvironment. The  development of novel combination approaches which target the immunosuppressive network engineered by tumors has raised the possibility of using ACT for a broader range of cancers. This review summarizes the potential of such strategies and outlines the clinical relevance of these observations."

"1104. Transfus Apher Sci. 2016 Feb;54(1):35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.transci.2016.01.011. Epub 2016 Jan 11.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cell treatment in hematologic malignancies.","Adoptive transfer of T cells that have genetically engineered chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is an encouraging treatment modality in the hematological malignancies. These T cells are capable of selectively recognizing tumor-associated antigens. There are a variety of reported, as well as ongoing studies on the utilization of CAR-T cells in the treatment of leukemia, myeloma,  as well as B and T cell lymphomas. In this review, we aimed to highlight current  understanding of this promising treatment modality, including its efficacy and adverse effects."

"1106. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;37(2):115-8. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2016.02.006.","[Chimeric antigen receptors T cells in treatment of a relapsed pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia, relapse after allogenetic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: case report and review of literature review].","OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of chimeric antigen receptors T cells (CAR-T) in childhood acute B lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). METHODS: A relapsed B-ALL child after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) was treated with CAR-T, and the related literatures were reviewed. RESULT: An 11-year-old girl with TEL-AML1 fusion gene positive BALL who suffered  a bone marrow relapse 28 months after remission from conventional chemotherapy. During the second remission, the patient received haploidentical allo-HSCT. She relapsed with detectable TEL-AML1 fusion gene even after chemotherapy and donor leukocyte infusions. She received an experimental donor-derived fourth generation CD19 CAR-T therapy. After infusion of 1 × 10(6)/kg CAR-T cells, she experienced only mild or moderate cytokine-release syndrome and the minimal residual disease  turned negative. Then three maintenance of CAR-T cell infusions [(0.83-1.65)×10(6)/kg] was administered, and the disease-free survival had lasted for 10 months. However, the TEL-AML1 copies in her blood still increased and she  died with leukemia relapse after additional CAR-T cell infusion. CONCLUSION: Treatment of relapsed B-ALL with the fourth generation CAR-T cells directed against CD19 was effective and safe. CAR-T therapy is a novel therapeutic approach that could be useful for patients with relapsed and refractory B-ALL who have failed all other treatment options."

"1107. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2016 Jan 27;108(7). pii: djv439. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv439. Print 2016 Jul.","Chimeric Antigen Receptors Modified T-Cells for Cancer Therapy.","The genetic modification and characterization of T-cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) allow functionally distinct T-cell subsets to recognize specific tumor cells. The incorporation of costimulatory molecules or cytokines can enable engineered T-cells to eliminate tumor cells. CARs are generated by fusing the antigen-binding region of a monoclonal antibody (mAb) or other ligand to membrane-spanning and intracellular-signaling domains. They have recently shown clinical benefit in patients treated with CD19-directed autologous T-cells. Recent successes suggest that the modification of T-cells with CARs could be a powerful approach for developing safe and effective cancer therapeutics. Here, we briefly review early studies, consider strategies to improve the therapeutic potential and safety, and discuss the challenges and future prospects for CAR T-cells in cancer therapy."

"1108. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E459-68. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1524155113. Epub 2016 Jan 12.","Switch-mediated activation and retargeting of CAR-T cells for B-cell malignancies.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has produced impressive results  in clinical trials for B-cell malignancies. However, safety concerns related to the inability to control CAR-T cells once infused into the patient remain a significant challenge. Here we report the engineering of recombinant antibody-based bifunctional switches that consist of a tumor antigen-specific Fab molecule engrafted with a peptide neo-epitope, which is bound exclusively by a peptide-specific switchable CAR-T cell (sCAR-T). The switch redirects the activity of the bio-orthogonal sCAR-T cells through the selective formation of immunological synapses, in which the sCAR-T cell, switch, and target cell interact in a structurally defined and temporally controlled manner. Optimized switches specific for CD19 controlled the activity, tissue-homing, cytokine release, and phenotype of sCAR-T cells in a dose-titratable manner in a Nalm-6 xenograft rodent model of B-cell leukemia. The sCAR-T-cell dosing regimen could be tuned to provide efficacy comparable to the corresponding conventional CART-19, but with lower cytokine levels, thereby offering a method of mitigating  cytokine release syndrome in clinical translation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this methodology is readily adaptable to targeting CD20 on cancer cells using the same sCAR-T cell, suggesting that this approach may be broadly applicable to heterogeneous and resistant tumor populations, as well as other liquid and solid tumor antigens."

"1109. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 26;113(4):E450-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1524193113. Epub 2016 Jan 12.","Versatile strategy for controlling the specificity and activity of engineered T cells.","The adoptive transfer of autologous T cells engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has emerged as a promising cancer therapy. Despite impressive clinical efficacy, the general application of current CAR-T--cell therapy is limited by serious treatment-related toxicities. One approach to improve the safety of CAR-T cells involves making their activation and proliferation dependent upon adaptor molecules that mediate formation of the immunological synapse between the target cancer cell and T-cell. Here, we describe the design and synthesis of structurally defined semisynthetic adaptors  we refer to as switch molecules, in which anti-CD19 and anti-CD22 antibody fragments are site-specifically modified with FITC using genetically encoded noncanonical amino acids. This approach allows the precise control over the geometry and stoichiometry of complex formation between CD19- or CD22-expressing  cancer cells and a universal anti-FITC-directed CAR-T cell. Optimization of this CAR-switch combination results in potent, dose-dependent in vivo antitumor activity in xenograft models. The advantage of being able to titrate CAR-T-cell in vivo activity was further evidenced by reduced in vivo toxicity and the elimination of persistent B-cell aplasia in immune-competent mice. The ability to control CAR-T cell and cancer cell interactions using intermediate switch molecules may expand the scope of engineered T-cell therapy to solid tumors, as well as indications beyond cancer therapy."

"1110. Oncotarget. 2016 Jan 19;7(3):2496-507. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6595.","Adoptive immunotherapy using T lymphocytes redirected to glypican-3 for the treatment of lung squamous cell carcinoma.","There are unmet medical needs for patients with lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). Therefore, in this study, we explored the antitumor potential of third-generation glypican 3 (GPC3)-redirected chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T lymphocytes (CARgpc3 T cells) in tumor models of LSCC. First,  we demonstrated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) that GPC3 was expressed in 66.3% of LSCC samples and in 3.3% of lung adenocarcinoma (LAD) samples but not in normal lung tissues. In the presence of GPC3-positive LSCC cells, CARgpc3 T cells were highly activated and increased in number. CARgpc3 T cells could specifically lyse GPC3-positive LSCC cells in vitro. In two established LSCC xenograft models, CARgpc3 T cells could almost completely eliminate the growth of GPC3-positive cells. Additionally, the CARgpc3 T cells were able to persist in vivo and efficiently infiltrate the cancerous tissues. Taken together, these findings indicate that CARgpc3 T cells might be a novel potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of patients with LSCC."

"1111. Am J Cancer Res. 2016 Jan 15;6(2):403-24. eCollection 2016.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CD19 CAR)-redirected adoptive T-cell immunotherapy for the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkins Lymphomas.","Recovery rates for B-cell Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL) are up to 70% with current standard-of-care treatments including rituximab (chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody) in combination with chemotherapy (R-CHOP). However, patients who do not respond to first-line treatment or develop resistance have a very poor prognosis. This signifies the need for the development of an optimal treatment approach for  relapsed/refractory B-NHL. Novel CD19- chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell redirected immunotherapy is an attractive option for this subset of patients. Anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy has already had remarkable efficacy in various leukemias as well as encouraging outcomes in phase I clinical trials of relapsed/refractory NHL. In going forward with additional clinical trials, complementary treatments that may circumvent potential resistance mechanisms should be used alongside anti-CD19 T-cells in order to prevent relapse with resistant strains of disease. Some such supplementary tactics include conditioning with lymphodepletion agents, sensitizing with kinase inhibitors and  Bcl-2 inhibitors, enhancing function with multispecific CAR T-cells and CD40 ligand-expressing CAR T-cells, and safeguarding with lymphoma stem cell-targeted  treatments. A therapy regimen involving anti-CD19 CAR T-cells and one or more auxiliary treatments could dramatically improve prognoses for patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell NHL. This approach has the potential to revolutionize  B-NHL salvage therapy in much the same way rituximab did for first-line treatments."

"1112. J Immunol. 2016 Jan 15;196(2):759-66. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1401710. Epub 2015 Dec 16.","Coexpressed Catalase Protects Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Redirected T Cells as well as Bystander Cells from Oxidative Stress-Induced Loss of Antitumor Activity.","Treatment of cancer patients by adoptive T cell therapy has yielded promising results. In solid tumors, however, T cells encounter a hostile environment, in particular with increased inflammatory activity as a hallmark of the tumor milieu that goes along with abundant reactive oxygen species (ROS) that substantially impair antitumor activity. We present a strategy to render antitumor T cells more resilient toward ROS by coexpressing catalase along with a tumor specific chimeric Ag receptor (CAR) to increase their antioxidative capacity by metabolizing H2O2. In fact, T cells engineered with a bicistronic vector that concurrently expresses catalase, along with the CAR coexpressing catalase (CAR-CAT), performed superior over CAR T cells as they showed increased levels of intracellular catalase and had a reduced oxidative state with less ROS accumulation in both the basal state and upon activation while maintaining their  antitumor activity despite high H2O2 levels. Moreover, CAR-CAT T cells exerted a  substantial bystander protection of nontransfected immune effector cells as measured by CD3ζ chain expression in bystander T cells even in the presence of high H2O2 concentrations. Bystander NK cells, otherwise ROS sensitive, efficiently eliminate their K562 target cells under H2O2-induced oxidative stress when admixed with CAR-CAT T cells. This approach represents a novel means for protecting tumor-infiltrating cells from tumor-associated oxidative stress-mediated repression."

"1113. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2016 Jan 14;9(1). pii: E3. doi: 10.3390/ph9010003.","The Role of Immunotherapy in Multiple Myeloma.","Multiple myeloma is the second most common hematologic malignancy. The treatment  of this disease has changed considerably over the last two decades with the introduction to the clinical practice of novel agents such as proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs. Basic research efforts towards better understanding of normal and missing immune surveillence in myeloma have led to development of new strategies and therapies that require the engagement of the immune system. Many of these treatments are under clinical development and have already started providing encouraging results. We, for the second time in the last two decades, are about to witness another shift of the paradigm in the management of this ailment. This review will summarize the major approaches in myeloma immunotherapies."

"1114. Am J Hematol. 2016 Jan;91(1):146-50. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24238.","CAR T-cells merge into the fast lane of cancer care.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) can be introduced into T-cells redirecting them to target specific tumor antigens. CAR-modified T cells targeting CD19 have shown remarkable activity against CD19+ malignancies including B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). Complete remission rates as high as 90% have been observed for patients with relapsed and refractory ALL and greater than 50% response rates have been seen in heavily pre-treated CLL and NHL. Excitingly, some remissions have been durable without any additional therapy, a finding which correlates with in-vivo T-cell persistence and B-cell aplasia. The major treatment related toxicities include B-cell aplasia, neurologic toxicities, and a potentially severe cytokine  release syndrome. This review summarizes outcomes for patients treated with CD19-CAR T-cells while exploring the fields challenges and future directions."

"1116. Annu Rev Med. 2016;67:165-83. doi: 10.1146/annurev-med-051914-021702. Epub 2015 Aug 26.","CAR-T Cell Therapy for Lymphoma.","Lymphomas arise from clonal expansions of B, T, or NK cells at different stages of differentiation. Because they occur in the immunocyte-rich lymphoid tissues, they are easily accessible to antibodies and cell-based immunotherapy. Expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) on T cells is a means of combining the antigen-binding site of a monoclonal antibody with the activating machinery of a  T cell, enabling antigen recognition independent of major histocompatibility complex restriction, while retaining the desirable antitumor properties of a T cell. Here, we discuss the basic design of CARs and their potential advantages and disadvantages over other immune therapies for lymphomas. We review current clinical trials in the field and consider strategies to improve the in vivo function and safety of immune cells expressing CARs. The ultimate driver of CAR development and implementation for lymphoma will be the demonstration of their ability to safely and cost-effectively cure these malignancies."

"1117. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 2016;56:59-83. doi: 10.1146/annurev-pharmtox-010814-124844.","Therapeutic Potential of T Cell Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CARs) in Cancer Treatment: Counteracting Off-Tumor Toxicities for Safe CAR T Cell Therapy.","A chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a recombinant fusion protein combining an antibody-derived targeting fragment with signaling domains capable of activating  T cells. Recent early-phase clinical trials have demonstrated the remarkable ability of CAR-modified T cells to eliminate B cell malignancies. This review describes the choice of target antigens and CAR manipulations to maximize antitumor specificity. Benefits and current limitations of CAR-modified T cells are discussed, with a special focus on the distribution of tumor antigens on normal tissues and the risk of on-target, off-tumor toxicities in the clinical setting. We present current methodologies for pre-evaluating these risks and review the strategies for counteracting potential off-tumor effects. Successful implementation of these approaches will improve the safety and efficacy of CAR T  cell therapy and extend the range of cancer patients who may be treated."

"1118. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2016 Jan;1865(1):90-100. doi: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.12.001.  Epub 2015 Dec 31.","Clinical pharmacology of CAR-T cells: Linking cellular pharmacodynamics to pharmacokinetics and antitumor effects.","Adoptive cell transfer of T cells genetically modified with tumor-reactive chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is a rapidly emerging field in oncology, which  in preliminary clinical trials has already shown striking antitumor efficacy. Despite these premises, there are still a number of open issues related to CAR-T  cells, spanning from their exact mechanism of action (pharmacodynamics), to the factors associated with their in vivo persistence (pharmacokinetics), and, finally, to the relative contribution of each of the two in determining the antitumor effects and accompanying toxicities. In light of the unprecedented curative potential of CAR-T cells and of their predicted wide availability in the next few years, in this review we will summarize the current knowledge on the clinical pharmacology aspects of what is anticipated to be a brand new class of biopharmaceuticals to join the therapeutic armamentarium of cancer doctors."

"1119. Br J Haematol. 2016 Jan;172(1):11-22. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13792. Epub 2015 Nov 12.","Current status of chimeric antigen receptor therapy for haematological malignancies.","The field of adoptive cell transfer includes chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) engineered T cells, constructs that emerged from basic research into principles of immunology and have transformed into clinically effective therapies for haematological malignancies. T cells engineered to express these artificial receptors hold great promise, but also carry significant risk. While permanent genetic modification of mature T cells appears safe, modulating their in vivo function is difficult, partly because the robust response can trigger other arms  of the immune system. Suicide systems and toxicity management with cytokine blockade or signal transduction modulators have emerged as a new frontier in this field, a far cry from early problems getting CAR T cells to work at all. Currently, clinical trials in patients with relapsed or refractory B cell malignancies treated with CD19-specific CAR T cells have induced durable remissions in adults and children. Results from these trials indicate that more work needs to be done to understand biomarkers of efficacy, the role of T cell persistence and how to integrate this care into standard practice. Cell therapy will not be a one size fits all class of medicine, and here we will discuss the development of this therapy and important questions for its future."

"1120. Cancer Lett. 2016 Jan 1;370(1):85-90. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2015.10.009. Epub 2015 Oct 19.","Immunotherapy and tumor microenvironment.","Recent exciting progress in cancer immunotherapy has ushered in a new era of cancer treatment. Immunotherapy can elicit unprecedented durable responses in advanced cancer patients that are much greater than conventional chemotherapy. However, such responses only occur in a relatively small fraction of patients. A  positive response to immunotherapy usually relies on dynamic interactions between tumor cells and immunomodulators inside the tumor microenvironment (TME). Depending on the context of these interactions, the TME may play important roles  to either dampen or enhance immune responses. Understanding the interactions between immunotherapy and the TME is not only critical to dissect the mechanisms  of action but also important to provide new approaches in improving the efficiency of current immunotherapies. In this review, we will highlight recent work on how the TME can influence the efficacy of immunotherapy as well as how manipulating the TME can improve current immunotherapy regimens in some cases."

"1121. Cancer Treat Res. 2016;169:63-102.","Targeting the Bone Marrow Microenvironment.","Unprecedented advances in multiple myeloma (MM) therapy during the last 15 years  are predominantly based on our increasing understanding of the pathophysiologic role of the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment. Indeed, new treatment paradigms, which incorporate thalidomide, immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), and proteasome inhibitors, target the tumor cell as well as its BM microenvironment. Ongoing translational research aims to understand in more detail how disordered BM-niche  functions contribute to MM pathogenesis and to identify additional derived targeting agents. One of the most exciting advances in the field of MM treatment  is the emergence of immune therapies including elotuzumab, daratumumab, the immune checkpoint inhibitors, Bispecific T-cell engagers (BiTes), and Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells. This chapter will review our knowledge on the pathophysiology of the BM microenvironment and discuss derived novel agents that  hold promise to further improve outcome in MM."

"1122. Curr Trends Immunol. 2016;17:95-115.","Emerging immunotherapeutics in adenocarcinomas: A focus on CAR-T cells.","More than 80% of all cancers arise from epithelial cells referred to as carcinomas. Adenocarcinomas are the most common type of carcinomas arising from the specialized epithelial cells that line the ducts of our major organs. Despite many advances in cancer therapies, metastatic and treatment-refractory cancers remain the 2nd leading cause of death. Immunotherapy has offered potential opportunities with specific targeting of tumor cells and inducing remission in many cancer patients. Numerous therapies using antibodies as antagonists or checkpoint inhibitors/immune modulators, peptide or cell vaccines, cytokines, and adoptive T cell therapies have been developed. The most innovative immunotherapy  approach so far has been the use of engineered T cell, also referred to as chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells). CAR-T cells are genetically modified naïve T cells that express a chimeric molecule which comprises of the antigen-recognition domains (scFv) of an anti-tumor antibody and one, two, or three intracellular signaling domains of the T cell receptor (TCR). When these engineered T cells recognize and bind to the tumor antigen target via the scFv fragment, a signal is sent to the intracellular TCR domains of the CAR, leading to activation of the T cells to become cytolytic against the tumor cells. CAR-T cell therapy has shown tremendous success for certain hematopoietic malignancies, but this success has not been extrapolated to adenocarcinomas. This is due to multiple factors associated with adenocarcinoma that are different from hematopoietic tumors. Although many advances have been made in targeting multiple cancers by CAR-T cells, clinical trials have shown adverse effects and toxicity related to this treatment. New strategies are yet to be devised to manage side effects associated with CAR-T cell therapies. In this review, we report some of the promising immunotherapeutic strategies being developed for treatment of most  common adenocarcinomas with particular emphasis on the future generation of CAR-T cell therapy."

"1123. Expert Rev Hematol. 2016;9(2):123-35. doi: 10.1586/17474086.2016.1122513. Epub 2016 Jan 6.","Beginning of a novel frontier: T-cell-directed immune manipulation in lymphomas.","Checkpoint inhibitors with monoclonal antibodies targeting the CTLA-4 or PD-1 axis have revolutionized treatment in some solid tumors, especially melanoma and  lung. The role of the CTLA-4 and PD-1 pathways and their inhibition in lymphoma may be different compared to solid tumors. In heavily pretreated Hodgkin lymphoma, PD-1-directed treatment has led to high remission rates. Several studies are now conducted also including diffuse large B-cell and follicular lymphoma. Besides antibody-based immunotherapy, treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells has also come back to the focus of recent studies. Clinical evidence of CAR T-cell treatment in B-cell malignancies is limited to small series, because of the dedicated resources needed. However, impressive response rates have been observed, but toxicities associated with cytokine release can be very severe and fatal. We herein review the background, early clinical evidence, and future perspectives of T-cell-directed immune manipulation for lymphomas including checkpoint inhibitors and CAR T-cell therapies."

"1124. Immunotherapy. 2016;8(4):449-60. doi: 10.2217/imt.16.4.","Mesothelin as a target for chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells as anticancer therapy.","Mesothelin is a promising target for immune-based therapy, specifically for mesothelioma and pancreatic and ovarian cancers that have high levels of mesothelin expression. Many preclinical and clinical studies that target tumors with high mesothelin expression with antibodies, immunotoxins, antibody-drug conjugates and vaccines have shown the potential of mesothelin as a target. Studies of T cells genetically modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) report significant efficacy in hematologic malignancies, and antimesothelin CAR T cells are currently being investigated in clinical studies. Here we outline the rationale for using mesothelin as a target for immunotherapy, review the clinical and preclinical studies evaluating mesothelin-directed therapies and explore the  promise of CAR T cells directed against mesothelin for immunotherapy in the future."

"1125. J Immunol Res. 2016;2016:5474602. doi: 10.1155/2016/5474602. Epub 2016 May 19.","CAR T Cell Therapy: A Game Changer in Cancer Treatment.","The development of novel targeted therapies with acceptable safety profiles is critical to successful cancer outcomes with better survival rates. Immunotherapy  offers promising opportunities with the potential to induce sustained remissions  in patients with refractory disease. Recent dramatic clinical responses in trials with gene modified T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) in B-cell malignancies have generated great enthusiasm. This therapy might pave the way for a potential paradigm shift in the way we treat refractory or relapsed cancers. CARs are genetically engineered receptors that combine the specific binding domains from a tumor targeting antibody with T cell signaling domains to allow specifically targeted antibody redirected T cell activation. Despite current successes in hematological cancers, we are only in the beginning of exploring the powerful potential of CAR redirected T cells in the control and elimination of resistant, metastatic, or recurrent nonhematological cancers. This review discusses the application of the CAR T cell therapy, its challenges, and strategies for successful clinical and commercial translation."

"1126. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1458:137-57. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3801-8_11.","Viral Engineering of Chimeric Antigen Receptor Expression on Murine and Human T Lymphocytes.","The adoptive transfer of a bolus of tumor-specific T lymphocytes into cancer patients is a promising therapeutic strategy. In one approach, tumor specificity  is conferred upon T cells via engineering expression of exogenous receptors, such as chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). Here, we describe the generation and production of both murine and human CAR-engineered T lymphocytes using retroviruses."

"1127. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1441:333-46. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3684-7_28.","Generation of BiKEs and TriKEs to Improve NK Cell-Mediated Targeting of Tumor Cells.","Cancer immunotherapies have gained significant momentum over the past decade, particularly with the advent of checkpoint inhibitors and CAR T-cells. While the  latter personalized targeted immunotherapy has revolutionized the field, a need for off-the-shelf therapies remains. The ability of NK cells to quickly lyse antibody-coated tumors and potently secrete cytokines without prior priming has made NK cells ideal candidates for antigen-specific immunotherapy. NK cells have  been targeted to tumors through two main strategies: mono-specific antibodies and bi/tri-specific antibodies. Mono-specific antibodies drive NK cell antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) of tumor cells. Bi/tri-specific antibodies drive re-directed lysis of tumor cells through binding of a tumor antigen and direct binding and crosslinking of the CD16 receptor on NK cells, thus bypassing the need for binding of the Fc portion of mono-specific antibodies. This chapter focuses on the generation of bi- and tri-specific killer engagers (BiKEs and TriKEs) meant to target NK cells to tumors. BiKEs and TriKEs  are smaller molecules composed of 2-3 variable portions of antibodies with different specificities, and represent a novel and more versatile strategy compared to traditional bi- and tri-specific antibody platforms."

"1128. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1393:75-86. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3338-9_7.","Chimeric Antigen Receptors for Cancer Immunotherapy.","The adoptive transfer of T lymphocytes expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has emerged as a promising treatment for various lymphoid and solid malignancies. Patients treated with CAR-T cells have achieved dramatic responses  and in some cases, complete tumor eradication. Given that CARs combine the specificity of a monoclonal antibody with the internal signaling domains of T cells, there is flexibility for choice of target antigen and strength of T-cell activation. This targeting mechanism also relinquishes the need for antigen processing and presentation via the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), making CARs a very attractive therapeutic option for the majority of patients. This review describes current methodological strategies used to generate CAR molecules, how to insert these molecules in T lymphocytes and how to evaluate the functionality of these CAR-T cells using various in vitro and in vivo experiments."

"1130. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2016 Jan;13(1):25-40. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.187. Epub 2015 Nov 3.","Novel immunotherapies in lymphoid malignancies.","The success of the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in the treatment of lymphoid malignancies provided proof-of-principle for exploiting the immune system therapeutically. Since the FDA approval of rituximab in 1997, several novel strategies that harness the ability of T cells to target cancer cells have  emerged. Reflecting on the promising clinical efficacy of these novel immunotherapy approaches, the FDA has recently granted breakthrough designation to three novel treatments with distinct mechanisms. First, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T-cell therapy is promising for the treatment of adult and paediatric relapsed and/or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Second, blinatumomab, a bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE(®)) antibody, is now approved for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia-chromosome-negative relapsed and/or refractory B-precursor ALL. Finally, the monoclonal antibody nivolumab, which targets the PD-1 immune-checkpoint receptor with high affinity,  is used for the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma following treatment failure with autologous-stem-cell transplantation and brentuximab vedotin. Herein, we review the background and development of these three distinct immunotherapy platforms, address the scientific advances in understanding the mechanism of action of each  therapy, and assess the current clinical knowledge of their efficacy and safety.  We also discuss future strategies to improve these immunotherapies through enhanced engineering, biomarker selection, and mechanism-based combination regimens."

"1131. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2016;39(3):164-71. doi: 10.2177/jsci.39.164.","Era of cancer immunotherapy has come.","The dramatic and long durable anti-tumor effect of immune checkpoint blockade, such as anti-CTLA-4 Ab, anti-PD-1 Ab, and anti-PD-L1 Ab was surprised the world.  In addition, CAR-T cell therapy that target the CD19 indicates a very high response rate to the CD19-positive hematologic malignancies. Now, no one doubts the presence of immunity against cancer.  Further, accordingly, tumor-specific neoantigen are attention now, the clinical trials of individualized peptide vaccination that target patient individual neoantigens has begun in the Western.  On the other hand, the peptide vaccine therapy that target common self-antigen is not yet been approved in Japan, the development is struggling.  In this paper, I  overview the cancer immunotherapy and neoantigen and introduce some development of cancer immunotherapy in Japan."

"1132. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2016;209:61-85. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-42934-2_5.","mRNA Cancer Vaccines.","mRNA cancer vaccines are a relatively new class of vaccines, which combine the potential of mRNA to encode for almost any protein with an excellent safety profile and a flexible production process. The most straightforward use of mRNA vaccines in oncologic settings is the immunization of patients with mRNA vaccines encoding tumor-associated antigens (TAAs). This is exemplified by the RNActive® technology, which induces balanced humoral and cellular immune responses in animal models and is currently evaluated in several clinical trials for oncologic indications. A second application of mRNA vaccines is the production of personalized vaccines. This is possible because mRNA vaccines are produced by a generic process, which can be used to quickly produce mRNA vaccines targeting patient-specific neoantigens that are identified by analyzing the tumor exome. Apart from being used directly to vaccinate patients, mRNAs can also be used in cellular therapies to transfect patient-derived cells in vitro and infuse the manipulated cells back into the patient. One such application is the transfection of patient-derived dendritic cells (DCs) with mRNAs encoding TAAs, which leads to the presentation of TAA-derived peptides on the DCs and an activation of antigen-specific T cells in vivo. A second application is the transfection of patient-derived T cells with mRNAs encoding chimeric antigen receptors, which allows the T cells to directly recognize a specific antigen expressed on the tumor. In this chapter, we will review preclinical and clinical data for the different approaches."

"1133. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2016;209:37-50. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-42934-2_3.","Minicircle-Based Engineering of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells.","Plasmid DNA is being used as a pharmaceutical agent in vaccination, as well as a  basic substance and starting material in gene and cell therapy, and viral vector  production. Since the uncontrolled expression of backbone sequences present in such plasmids and the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes may have profound detrimental effects, an important goal in vector development was to produce supercoiled DNA lacking bacterial backbone sequences: Minicircle (MC) DNA. The Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon system is a non-viral gene delivery platform enabling a close-to-random profile of genomic integration. In combination, the MC platform greatly enhances SB transposition and transgene integration resulting in higher numbers of stably modified target cells. We have  recently developed a strategy for MC-based SB transposition of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) transgenes that enable improved transposition rates compared to conventional plasmids and rapid manufacturing of therapeutic CAR T cell doses (Monjezi et al. 2016). This advance enables manufacturing CAR T cells in a virus-free process that relies on SB-mediated transposition from MC DNA to accomplish gene-transfer. Advantages of this approach include a strong safety profile due to the nature of the MC itself and the genomic insertion pattern of MC-derived CAR transposons. In addition, stable transposition and high-level CAR  transgene expression, as well as easy and reproducible handling, make MCs a preferred vector source for gene-transfer in advanced cellular and gene therapy.  In this chapter, we will review our experience in MC-based CAR T cell engineering and discuss our recent advances in MC manufacturing to accelerate both pre-clinical and clinical implementation."

"1134. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016;57(11):2388-2395.","Recent advances and future challenges in cancer immunotherapy.","Remarkable advances have been made in cancer immunotherapy. Recent treatment strategies, especially chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cell therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors, reportedly achieve higher objective responses and better survival rates than previous immunotherapies for patients with treatment-resistant malignancies, creating a paradigm shift in cancer treatment.  Several clinical trials of cancer immunotherapy for patients with various malignancies are ongoing. However, those with certain malignancies, such as low-immunogenic cancers, cannot be successfully treated with T-cell immunotherapy, and subsets of immunotherapy-treated patients relapse, meaning that more effective immunotherapeutic strategies are needed for such patients. Furthermore, the safety, convenience, and cost of cancer immunotherapy need to be improved in the near future. Herein, we discuss recent advances and future challenges in cancer immunotherapy, i.e., the identification of neoantigens for the development of individualized immunotherapies, the development of new CAR-T cell therapies, including so-called armored CAR-T cells that can induce greater clinical effects and thereby achieve longer survival, the development of off-the-shelf treatment regimens using non-self cells or cell lines, and effective cancer immunotherapy combinations."

"1135. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016;57(11):2373-2380.","Regulation of adoptive immunotherapy.","Adoptive immunotherapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells has provided a major breakthrough in the treatment of hematological malignancies. In  Japan, it is expected that CD19 CAR-T cell therapy will be introduced earlier in  clinical B cell malignancy settings and/or that a novel CAR-T cell therapy will be developed for non-B cell malignancies. The Act on the Safety of Regenerative  Medicine and the Revised Pharmaceutical Affairs Act were promulgated in 2014.  Both Acts were very important to the introduction and development of CAR-T therapy in Japan. Specified cell products produced according to the former Act  can be used in clinical research projects, while regenerated medical products produced according to the latter Act can be used in clinical trials, having been  launched on the market. In this chapter, we will summarize the regulations pertaining to adoptive immunotherapy on the basis of these two essential Acts."

"1136. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2016;57(11):2365-2372.","Adoptive immunotherapy utilizing anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cells for  B-cell malignancies.","Genetically modified T-cells with forced expression of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CD19 CAR) have demonstrated promising clinical results for relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies in early clinical trial settings. The first beneficial tumor regressions were identified among approximately half of CLL patients in 2011. Similarly, CD19 CAR T-cells achieved remissions in about 80% of aggressive B-cell lymphomas in 2012. Furthermore, in 2013 this cellular therapy showed an extremely high rate of efficacy against refractory CD19 positive acute  lymphoid leukemia, which had been regarded as the most difficult to treat hematologic disease. Recently, despite the absence of CD19 expression by neoplastic plasma cells, patients with refractory multiple myeloma achieved stringent complete remission after this therapy coupled with high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation. However, there are significant toxicities. Cytokine releasing syndrome and neurotoxicity are recognized as life-threatening adverse events. Although phase I/II clinical trials have just started in Japan, given the exciting results obtained to date, this cellular therapy is expected to be a novel breakthrough immunotherapy for treating refractory B-cell malignancies."

"1137. Oncotarget. 2015 Dec 29;6(42):44179-90. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6175.","Therapeutic potential of CAR-T cell-derived exosomes: a cell-free modality for targeted cancer therapy.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-based T-cell adoptive immunotherapy is a distinctively promising therapy for cancer. The engineering of CARs into T cells  provides T cells with tumor-targeting capabilities and intensifies their cytotoxic activity through stimulated cell expansion and enhanced cytokine production. As a novel and potent therapeutic modality, there exists some uncontrollable processes which are the potential sources of adverse events. As an extension of this impactful modality, CAR-T cell-derived exosomes may substitute  CAR-T cells to act as ultimate attackers, thereby overcoming some limitations. Exosomes retain most characteristics of parent cells and play an essential role in intercellular communications via transmitting their cargo to recipient cells.  The application of CAR-T cell-derived exosomes will make this cell-based therapy  more clinically controllable as it also provides a cell-free platform to diversify anticancer mediators, which responds effectively to the complexity and  volatility of cancer. It is believed that the appropriate application of both cellular and exosomal platforms will make this effective treatment more practicable."

"1138. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 23;10(12):e0144787. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144787. eCollection 2015.","Evaluation of Intracellular Signaling Downstream Chimeric Antigen Receptors.","CD19-targeting CAR T cells have shown potency in clinical trials targeting B cell leukemia. Although mainly second generation (2G) CARs carrying CD28 or 4-1BB have been investigated in patients, preclinical studies suggest that third generation  (3G) CARs with both CD28 and 4-1BB have enhanced capacity. However, little is known about the intracellular signaling pathways downstream of CARs. In the present work, we have analyzed the signaling capacity post antigen stimulation in both 2G and 3G CARs. 3G CAR T cells expanded better than 2G CAR T cells upon repeated stimulation with IL-2 and autologous B cells. An antigen-driven accumulation of CAR+ cells was evident post antigen stimulation. The cytotoxicity of both 2G and 3G CAR T cells was maintained by repeated stimulation. The phosphorylation status of intracellular signaling proteins post antigen stimulation showed that 3G CAR T cells had a higher activation status than 2G. Several proteins involved in signaling downstream the TCR were activated, as were proteins involved in the cell cycle, cell adhesion and exocytosis. In conclusion, 3G CAR T cells had a higher degree of intracellular signaling activity than 2G CARs which may explain the increased proliferative capacity seen in 3G CAR T cells. The study also indicates that there may be other signaling pathways to consider when designing or evaluating new generations of CARs."

"1139. Mol Cancer. 2015 Dec 11;14:207. doi: 10.1186/s12943-015-0474-2.","Novel drug targets for personalized precision medicine in relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a comprehensive review.","Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a clinically heterogeneous lymphoid malignancy and the most common subtype of non-Hodgkins lymphoma in adults, with  one of the highest mortality rates in most developed areas of the world. More than half of DLBLC patients can be cured with standard R-CHOP regimens, however approximately 30 to 40 % of patients will develop relapsed/refractory disease that remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality due to the limited therapeutic options.Recent advances in gene expression profiling have led to the  identification of at least three distinct molecular subtypes of DLBCL: a germinal center B cell-like subtype, an activated B cell-like subtype, and a primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma subtype. Moreover, recent findings have not only increased our understanding of the molecular basis of chemotherapy resistance but have also helped identify molecular subsets of DLBCL and rational targets for drug interventions that may allow for subtype/subset-specific molecularly targeted precision medicine and personalized combinations to both prevent and treat relapsed/refractory DLBCL. Novel agents such as lenalidomide, ibrutinib, bortezomib, CC-122, epratuzumab or pidilizumab used as single-agent or in combination with (rituximab-based) chemotherapy have already demonstrated promising activity in patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL. Several novel potential drug targets have been recently identified such as the BET bromodomain  protein (BRD)-4, phosphoribosyl-pyrophosphate synthetase (PRPS)-2, macrodomain-containing mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase (ARTD)-9 (also known as PARP9), deltex-3-like E3 ubiquitin ligase (DTX3L) (also known as BBAP), NF-kappaB inducing kinase (NIK) and transforming growth factor beta receptor (TGFβR).This review highlights the new insights into the molecular basis of relapsed/refractory DLBCL and summarizes the most promising drug targets and experimental treatments for relapsed/refractory DLBCL, including the use of novel agents such as lenalidomide, ibrutinib, bortezomib, pidilizumab, epratuzumab, brentuximab-vedotin or CAR T cells, dual inhibitors, as well as mechanism-based combinatorial experimental therapies. We also provide a comprehensive and updated list of current drugs, drug targets and preclinical and clinical experimental studies in DLBCL. A special focus is given on STAT1, ARTD9, DTX3L and ARTD8 (also known as PARP14) as novel potential drug targets in distinct molecular subsets of DLBCL."

"1140. Cell Discov. 2015 Dec 8;1:15040. doi: 10.1038/celldisc.2015.40. eCollection 2015.","Enhancement of the in vivo persistence and antitumor efficacy of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells through the delivery of modified TERT mRNA."," Chimeric antigen receptor T cell immunotherapy is a promising therapeutic strategy for treating tumors, demonstrating its efficiency in eliminating several hematological malignancies in recent years. However, a major obstacle associated  with current chimeric antigen receptor T cell immunotherapy is that the limited replicative lifespan of chimeric antigen receptor T cells prohibits the long-term persistence and expansion of these cells in vivo, potentially hindering the long-term therapeutic effects of chimeric antigen receptor T cell immunotherapy.  Here we showed that the transient delivery of modified mRNA encoding telomerase reverse transcriptase to human chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting the CD19 antigen (CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells) would transiently elevate the telomerase activity in these cells, leading to increased proliferation and delayed replicative senescence without risk of insertion mutagenesis or immortalization. Importantly, compared to conventional CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells, after the transient delivery of telomerase reverse transcriptase mRNA, these CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells showed improved  persistence and proliferation in mouse xenograft tumor models of human B-cell malignancies. Furthermore, the transfer of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells after the transient delivery of telomerase reverse transcriptase mRNA enhanced long-term antitumor effects in mouse xenograft tumor models compared with conventional CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cell transfer. The results of the present study provide an effective and safe method to improve the therapeutic potential of chimeric antigen receptor T cells, which might be beneficial for treating other types of cancer, particularly solid tumors."

"1141. Cancer Discov. 2015 Dec;5(12):1238-40. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-15-1275.","Overcoming Antigen Escape with CAR T-cell Therapy.","Sotillo and colleagues describe the molecular events associated with apparent loss of target antigen expression following CAR T-cell therapy. We propose that broader immune activation is required to prevent outgrowth of tumor antigen escape variants following targeted therapies."

"1142. Cell Res. 2015 Dec;25(12):1281-2. doi: 10.1038/cr.2015.131. Epub 2015 Nov 17.","The quest for spatio-temporal control of CAR T cells.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are synthetic receptors capable of directing potent antigen-specific anti-tumor T cell responses. A recent report by Wu et al. extends a series of strategies aiming to curb excessive T cell activity, utilizing in this instance a chemical dimerizer to aggregate antigen-binding, T cell-activating and costimulatory domains."

"1143. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Dec;96(3):399-412. doi: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.06.006. Epub 2015 Jun 28.","Immunotherapy for multiple myeloma: Current status and future directions.","Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell neoplasm which constitutes about 10% of all hematologic malignancies and has been in the limelight of fast-track development of novel drugs that have contributed to the transformation of a rapidly lethal disease into a chronic illness with significant improvement in quality of life. Nonetheless, MM remains an incurable disease in many patients. Immunotherapy has been one of the approaches that had the highest hope for curing this disease. More than two decades of research and clinical trials in immunotherapy for MM have however resulted in very little impact on patient survival. The various immunotherapy approaches that have been attempted over the  last two decades but were fraught with failure have already been extensively summarized in many published reviews. Nevertheless, in view of better understanding of the immune checkpoints, the innate immune system, and improved biotechnology, there is renewed hope. In this review, we will briefly discuss the unsuccessful approaches and emphasize the lessons learned, highlight the challenges that lie ahead, and discuss the more promising approaches, that already exist or being developed such as use of allogeneic stem cell transplants  (allo-SCT) as a form of cellular immunotherapy, new monoclonal antibodies, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell adoptive therapy, and NK cell therapy."

"1144. Exp Hematol. 2015 Dec;43(12):1001-1014.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.08.006. Epub 2015 Sep 16.","Antileukemic potency of CD19-specific T cells against chemoresistant pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Adoptive therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells (CART cells) has exhibited great promise in clinical trials, with efficient response correlated with CART-cell expansion and persistence. Despite extensive clinical use, the mechanisms regulating CART-cell expansion and persistence have not been completely elucidated. We have examined the antileukemia potency of CART cells targeting CD19 antigen using second-generation CAR containing a CD28 co-stimulatory domain cloned into piggyBac-transposon vector and patient-derived  chemoresistant pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia samples. In the presence of large numbers of target cells characteristic of patients with high leukemia burden, excessive proliferation of CART cells leads to differentiation into short-lived effector cells. Transient leukemia growth delay was induced by CART-cell infusion in mice xenografted with rapidly growing CD19+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells and was followed by rapid CART-cell extinction. Conditioning with the hypomethylating agent 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine-activating caspase 3 and promotion of apoptosis in leukemia cells maximized the effect of CART cells and improved CART-cell persistence. These data suggest that the clinical use of 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine before CART cells could be considered. Coculture of leukemia cells with bone marrow stroma cells reduced target cell loss, suggesting that leukemia cell mobilization into circulation may help to remove the protective effect of bone marrow stroma and increase the efficacy of CART-cell therapy."

"1145. Mol Oncol. 2015 Dec;9(10):1994-2018. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2015.10.012. Epub 2015 Oct 23.","CAR T-cell immunotherapy: The path from the by-road to the freeway?","Chimeric antigen receptors are genetically encoded artificial fusion molecules that can re-program the specificity of peripheral blood polyclonal T-cells against a selected cell surface target. Unparallelled clinical efficacy has recently been demonstrated using this approach to treat patients with refractory  B-cell malignancy. However, the approach is technically challenging and can elicit severe toxicity in patients. Moreover, solid tumours have largely proven refractory to this approach. In this review, we describe the important structural features of CARs and how this may influence function. Emerging clinical experience is summarized in both solid tumours and haematological malignancies. Finally, we consider the particular challenges imposed by solid tumours to the successful development of CAR T-cell immunotherapy, together with a number of innovative strategies that have been developed in an effort to reverse the balance in favour of therapeutic benefit."

"1146. Mol Oncol. 2015 Dec;9(10):2043-53. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2015.10.009. Epub 2015 Oct 23.","Cancer immunotherapy: Strategies for personalization and combinatorial approaches.","The results of recent clinical trials using novel immunotherapy strategies such as immune checkpoint blockade and adoptive T-cell therapy approaches including CAR T-cell therapy have clearly established immunotherapy as an important modality for the treatment of cancer besides the traditional approaches of surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy or targeted therapy. However, to date immunotherapy has been shown to induce durable clinical benefit in only a fraction of the patients. The use of combination strategies is likely to increase the number of patients that might benefit from immunotherapy. Indeed, over the last decade, the characterization of multiple immune resistance mechanisms used by the tumor to evade the immune system and the development of agents that target those mechanisms has generated a lot of enthusiasm for cancer immunotherapy. But  a critical issue is to determine how best to combine such agents. This review will focus on novel immunotherapy agents currently in development and discuss strategies to develop and personalize combination cancer immunotherapy strategies."

"1148. Turk J Haematol. 2015 Dec;32(4):285-94. doi: 10.4274/tjh.2015.0049. Epub 2015 Aug 6.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy in Hematology.","It is well demonstrated that the immune system can control and eliminate cancer cells. Immune-mediated elimination of tumor cells has been discovered and is the  basis of both cancer vaccines and cellular therapies including hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Adoptive T cell transfer has been improved to be more specific and potent and to cause less off-target toxicity. Currently, there are two forms of engineered T cells being tested in clinical trials: T cell receptor  (TCR) and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells. On 1 July 2014, the United States Food and Drug Administration granted breakthrough therapy designation to anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy. Many studies were conducted to evaluate the benefits of this exciting and potent new treatment modality. This review summarizes the history of adoptive immunotherapy, adoptive immunotherapy using CARs, the CAR manufacturing process, preclinical and clinical studies, and  the effectiveness and drawbacks of this strategy."

"1149. Breast Cancer (Auckl). 2015 Nov 2;9(Suppl 2):35-43. doi: 10.4137/BCBCR.S29425. eCollection 2015.","A Perspective of Immunotherapy for Breast Cancer: Lessons Learned and Forward Directions for All Cancers.","Immunotherapy for cancer has been a focus 50 years ago. At the time, this treatment was developed prior to cloning of the cytokines, no knowledge of regulatory T-cells, and very little information that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) (originally colony forming unit-fibroblasts [CFU-F]) could be licensed by  the inflammatory microenvironment to suppress an immune response. Given the information available at that time, mononuclear cells from the peripheral blood were activated ex vivo and then replaced in the patients with tumor. The intent was to harness these activated immune cells to target the cancer cells. These studies did not lead to long-term responses because the activated cells when reinfused into the patients were an advantage to the resident MSCs, which can home the tumor and then become suppressive in the presence of the immune cells. The immune suppression caused by MSCs would also expand regulatory T-cells, resulting instead in tumor protection. As time progressed, these different fields converged into a new approach to use immunotherapy for cancer. This article discusses these approaches and also reviews chimeric antigen receptor in the context of future treatments for solid tumors, including breast cancer."

"1150. Cancer J. 2015 Nov-Dec;21(6):475-9. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000155.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cells: New Approaches to Improve Their Efficacy and Reduce Toxicity.","The durable remission of B-cell leukemia and lymphoma following chimeric antigen  receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has brought this new form of adoptive immunotherapy to center stage with the expectation that CAR T-cell therapy may provide similar  efficacy in other hematologic and solid cancers. Herein, we review recent advances in the areas of CAR design that improve CAR T-cell proliferation, engraftment, and efficacy, as well as clinical application strategies that are designed to improve clinical efficacy while reducing the risk of toxicity and broaden patient access to this promising form of cancer immunotherapy."

"1151. Cancer J. 2015 Nov-Dec;21(6):470-4. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000153.","CD19-Targeted T Cells for Hematologic Malignancies: Clinical Experience to Date.","Recently, immunotherapy for cancer has begun to garner traction with encouraging  results in a number of malignancies. Included within this arena has been the genetic engineering of autologous T cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs)  against tumor target. The majority of this experience has included the use of CAR T cells directed against CD19 for B-cell hematologic malignancies. The most striking efficacy to date with CAR T cells directed against CD19 has been in relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with the overwhelming majority of patients experiencing complete remissions. In addition,  single-center and largely early-phase studies have demonstrated responses in patients with varying histologic findings of relapsed and refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The favorable response rates seen with this technology have been tempered by the high risk of toxicity, particularly in the form of cytokine-release syndrome and neurotoxicity. Agents such as tocilizumab and corticosteroids have been used to treat these toxicities. The current state of the science includes strategies to circumvent and treat toxicity, manufacturing,  and study of later-generation CAR constructs with the intention of improving efficacy and development of CARs against other tumor targets for both hematologic and solid tumor malignancies. The observation of an early efficacy ensures further integration and development of this modality into future immunotherapeutic strategies for various cancers."

"1152. Curr Opin Hematol. 2015 Nov;22(6):503-8. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000179.","Donor-derived CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As immunotherapy matures into possible front-line therapy, new approaches are necessary to expand the capacity to treat more patients. Although  most technologies for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapies require autologous T cells, off the shelf sources are highly desired. RECENT FINDINGS: Sources of T cells for modification with CARs include cord blood and either related or unrelated allogeneic donors. Strategies to manipulate these sources focus on reducing the risk of alloreactivity, while maintaining the potential for high function and long persistence associated with successful CAR T-cell therapies. SUMMARY: Recent research implies that manipulating nonautologous T-cell sources can result in well tolerated and effective products, but work remains to determine if these approaches will reach the efficacy of autologous products."

"1153. Curr Opin Hematol. 2015 Nov;22(6):484-8. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000190.","T cells expressing CD123 chimeric antigen receptors for treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this article is to discuss the rationale of targeting CD123 using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells for the treatment of leukemia. RECENT FINDINGS: CD123 is a leukemia-associated antigen that expresses at high levels in leukemic stem cells and leukemic blasts and low level in normal hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. Immune-based therapies targeting CD123 are being developed. Preclinical data suggest that CD123 CAR T cells exhibit potent antileukemic activity and various impacts on normal hematopoiesis. SUMMARY: CD123 is an attractive surface target for novel antileukemic therapies.  CD123 CAR T-cell-based immunotherapy is a promising treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia."

"1154. Curr Opin Hematol. 2015 Nov;22(6):509-515. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000181.","Challenges and opportunities of allogeneic donor-derived CAR T cells.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are entering advanced phases of clinical trial testing with promising results, the potential implications of use in an allogeneic environment are emerging as an important consideration. This review discusses the use of allogeneic CAR therapy, the potential effects of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling on CAR T-cell efficacy,  and the potential for TCR elimination to generate an off-the-shelf product. RECENT FINDINGS: The majority of preclinical and clinical data regarding allogeneic T cells are focused on safety of their use given the potential for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) mediated by the T-cell receptor expressed with the introduced CAR. Recent clinical trials using donor-derived CAR T cells are using either rigorous patient selection or T-cell selection (such as enrichment for virus-specific T cells). Although no GVHD has been reported, the efficacy of  the allogeneic CAR treatment needs to be optimized. Several preclinical models limit allogeneic CAR-driven GVHD by utilizing memory T-cell selection, virus-specific T cells, gene-editing techniques, or suicide gene engineering. SUMMARY: In the allogeneic environment, the potential effects of TCR signaling on the efficacy of CAR could affect the clinical responses with the use of donor-derived CAR T cells. Better understanding of the functionality of donor-derived T cells for therapy is essential for the development of universal effector cells for CAR therapy."

"1155. Curr Opin Hematol. 2015 Nov;22(6):516-20. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000182.","Paving the road ahead for CD19 CAR T-cell therapy.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Modern immunotherapies, most notably in the form of anti-CD19  chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have produced significant clinical responses in otherwise refractory pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients. Several groups have simultaneously reported robust response rates in children and adults alike. These early studies indicate an impending shift in paradigm for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Incorporating CD19 CAR T-cell therapy into upfront or salvage regimens has its challenges and opportunities. RECENT FINDINGS: Most CD19 CAR T-cell products in trial today are excellent at inducing minimal residual disease negative remissions, and most responding patients experience cytokine release syndrome and/or neurotoxicity. The challenges facing the CAR community involve how best to minimize the severity of  cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity while maximizing antitumor efficacy,  determining what role this therapy will play for the prophylaxis and treatment of central nervous system leukemia, and its implications on subsequent hematopoietic stem cell transplant given the emergence of CD19-negative relapses. SUMMARY: CD19 CAR T-cell therapy is a powerful new tool in the oncologists arsenal. How it is incorporated into standard practice and how it will shift survival curves are the exciting questions that are waiting to be answered."

"1156. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Nov;27(6):466-74. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000232.","Smart CARs engineered for cancer immunotherapy.","PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are synthetic immunoreceptors, which can redirect T cells to selectively kill tumor cells, and  as living drugs have the potential to generate long-term antitumor immunity. Given their recent clinical successes for the treatment of refractory B-cell malignancies, there is a strong push toward advancing this immunotherapy to other hematological diseases and solid cancers. Here, we summarize the current state of the field, highlighting key variables for the optimal application of CAR T cells  for cancer immunotherapy. RECENT FINDINGS: Advances in CAR T-cell therapy have highlighted intrinsic CAR design and T-cell manufacturing methods as critical components for maximal therapeutic success. Similarly, addressing the unique extrinsic challenges of each tumor type, including overcoming the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and tumor heterogeneity, and mitigating potential toxicity, will dominate the next wave of CAR T-cell development. SUMMARY: CAR T-cell therapeutic optimization, including intrinsic and extrinsic factors, is critical to developing effective CAR T-cell therapies for cancer. The excitement of CAR T-cell immunotherapy has just begun, and will continue with new insights revealed in laboratory research and in ongoing clinical investigations."

"1157. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2015 Nov;16(11):54. doi: 10.1007/s11864-015-0371-3.","An Update on the Role of Immunotherapy and Vaccine Strategies for Primary Brain Tumors.","Existing therapies for glioblastoma (GBM), the most common malignant primary brain tumor in adults, have fallen short of improving the dismal patient outcomes, with an average 14-16-month median overall survival. The biological complexity and adaptability of GBM, redundancy of dysregulated signaling pathways, and poor penetration of therapies through the blood-brain barrier contribute to poor therapeutic progress. The current standard of care for newly diagnosed GBM consists of maximal safe resection, followed by fractionated radiotherapy combined with concurrent temozolomide (TMZ) and 6-12 cycles of adjuvant TMZ. At progression, bevacizumab with or without additional chemotherapy is an option for salvage therapy. The recent FDA approval of sipuleucel-T for prostate cancer and ipilumimab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab for select solid tumors and the ongoing trials showing clinical efficacy and response durability herald a new era of cancer treatment with the potential to change standard-of-care treatment across multiple cancers. The evaluation of various immunotherapeutics is advancing for GBM, putting into question the dogma of the CNS as an immuno-privileged site. While the field is yet young, both active immunotherapy involving vaccine strategies and cellular therapy as well as reversal of GBM-induced global immune-suppression through immune checkpoint blockade are showing promising results and revealing essential immunological insights regarding kinetics of the immune response, immune evasion, and correlative biomarkers. The future holds exciting promise in establishing new treatment options for GBM that harness the patients own immune system by activating it with immune checkpoint inhibitors, providing specificity using vaccine therapy, and allowing for modulation and enhancement by combinatorial approaches."

"1158. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Oct 29;5(3):e1100792. eCollection 2016 Mar.","Commentary: IL-12-secreting tumor-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T cells: An  unaddressed concern on Koneru et al. (2015).","To date, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown remarkable responses  in patients with certain hematological malignancies particularly acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), but have led to more limited success with solid tumors probably due to immunosuppressive networks in the tumor environment. To overcome this issue, Koneru et al. have recently demonstrated IL-12-producing CAR T cells, also known as armored CAR T cells, to simultaneously target both ovarian tumor cells and their microenvironment. This commentary challenges the study design of Koneru et al. study and highlights the importance of choosing the most  appropriate experimental animal model in preclinical cancer studies."

"1159. Oncotarget. 2015 Oct 20;6(32):33961-71. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5582.","Efficiency of CD19 chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for treatment of B  cell malignancies in phase I clinical trials: a meta-analysis.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells targeted CD19 showed promising clinical outcomes in treatment of B cell malignances such as chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and other indolent lymphomas.  However, the clinical benefit varies tremendously among different trials. This meta-analysis investigated the efficacy (response rates and survival time) of CD19-CAR T cells in refractory B cell malignances in Phase I clinical trials. We  searched publications between 1991 and 2014 from PubMed and Web of Science. Pooled response rates were calculated using random-effects models. Heterogeneity  was investigated by subgroup analysis and meta-regression. Fourteen clinical trials including 119 patients were eligible for response rate evaluation, 62 patients in 12 clinical trials were eligible for progression-free survival analysis. The overall pooled response rate of CD19-CAR T cells was 73% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 46-94%). Significant heterogeneity across estimates of  response rates was observed (p < 0.001, I2=88.3%). ALL patients have higher response rate (93%, 95% CI: 65-100%) than CLL (62%, 95% CI: 27-93%) and lymphoma  patients (36%, 95% CI: 1-83%). Meta-regression analysis identified lymphodepletion and no IL-2 administrated T cells as two key factors associated with better clinical response. Lymphodepletion and higher infused CAR T cell number were associated with better prognosis. In conclusion, this meta-analysis showed a high clinical response rate of CD19-CAR T cell-based immunotherapy in treatment of refractory B cell malignancies. Lymphodepletion and increasing number of infused CD19-CAR T cells have positive correlations with the clinical efficiency, on the contrary, IL-2 administration to T cells is not recommended."

"1161. Cancer Cell. 2015 Oct 12;28(4):401-402. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2015.09.014.","Shifting the Evolving CAR T Cell Platform into Higher Gear.","In this issue of Cancer Cell, Zhao and colleagues test various chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to show that CD28-CD3ζ CAR T cells that constitutively express 4-1BBL promote T cell expansion and tumor eradication while reducing exhaustion. The results have important implications for the development of effective CAR T cell therapies in cancer patients."

"1162. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 8;10(10):e0139221. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139221. eCollection 2015.","Treatment with 5-Aza-2-Deoxycytidine Induces Expression of NY-ESO-1 and Facilitates Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte-Mediated Tumor Cell Killing.","BACKGROUND: NY-ESO-1 belongs to the cancer/testis antigen (CTA) family and represents an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy. Its expression is induced in a variety of solid tumors via DNA demethylation of the promoter of CpG islands. However, NY-ESO-1 expression is usually very low or absent in some tumors such as breast cancer or multiple myeloma. Therefore, we established an optimized in vitro treatment protocol for up-regulation of NY-ESO-1 expression by tumor cells using the hypomethylating agent 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (DAC). METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We demonstrated de novo induction of NY-ESO-1 in  MCF7 breast cancer cells and significantly increased expression in U266 multiple  myeloma cells. This effect was time- and dose-dependent with the highest expression of NY-ESO-1 mRNA achieved by the incubation of 10 μM DAC for 72 hours. NY-ESO-1 activation was also confirmed at the protein level as shown by Western blot, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence staining. The detection and quantification of single NY-ESO-1 peptides presented at the tumor cell surface in the context of HLA-A*0201 molecules revealed an increase of 100% and 50% for MCF7 and U266 cells, respectively. Moreover, the enhanced expression of NY-ESO-1 derived peptides at the cell surface was accompanied by an increased specific lysis of MCF7 and U266 cells by HLA-A*0201/NY-ESO-1(157-165) peptide specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) CD8+ T cells. In addition, the killing activity of CAR T cells correlated with the secretion of higher IFN-gamma levels. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These results indicate that NY-ESO-1 directed immunotherapy with specific CAR T cells might benefit from concomitant DAC treatment."

"1163. Oncotarget. 2015 Oct 6;6(30):28911-28. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5029.","Rigorous optimization and validation of potent RNA CAR T cell therapy for the treatment of common epithelial cancers expressing folate receptor.","Using lentiviral technology, we recently demonstrated that incorporation of CD27  costimulation into CARs greatly improves antitumor activity and T cell persistence. Still, virus-mediated gene transfer is expensive, laborious and enables long-term persistence, creating therapies which cannot be easily discontinued if toxic. To address these concerns, we utilized a non-integrating RNA platform to engineer human T cells to express FRα-specific, CD27 CARs and tested their capacity to eliminate human FRα(+) cancer. Novel CARs comprised of human components were constructed, C4-27z and C4opt-27z, a codon-optimized variant created for efficient expression. Following RNA electroporation, C4-27z and C4opt-27z CAR expression is initially ubiquitous but progressively declines across T cell populations. In addition, C4-27z and C4opt-27z RNA CAR T cells secrete high levels of Th-1 cytokines and display strong cytolytic function against human FRα(+) cancers in a time- and antigen-dependent manner. Further, C4-27z and C4opt-27z CAR T cells exhibit significant proliferation in vivo, facilitate the complete regression of fully disseminated human ovarian cancer xenografts in mice and reduce the progression of solid ovarian cancer. These results advocate for rapid progression of C4opt-27z RNA CAR to the clinic and establish a new paradigm for preclinical optimization and validation of RNA CAR candidates destined for clinical translation."

"1165. Discov Med. 2015 Oct;20(110):185-90.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy for the treatment of B cell lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Relapsed and refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remains difficult to treat, with minimal improvement in outcomes despite advances in upfront therapy and improved survival for de novo ALL. Targeted immunotherapy for cancer represents a promising new treatment and utilizing the immune system to target and eradicate malignant cells in the body has emerged as a potent therapy. Administration of cytotoxic T cells genetically engineered to express a chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR) recognizing CD19 have been shown to induce complete responses in patients with B-cell lineage ALL. So far, six clinical trials including 79 ALL patients treated with CD19-CAR T cells have been published, and  the results from these trials are exciting with impressive clinical responses. Thus, CAR T cell therapy represents a potential useful tool to ALL. However, the  majority of CAR cell studies have observed severe therapy associated toxicities,  which needs attention. In this review, we mainly focus on CD19-CAR T cells, clinical trials for ALL as well as toxicities and challenges for CD19-CAR T therapy."

"1166. Front Pediatr. 2015 Oct 1;3:80. doi: 10.3389/fped.2015.00080. eCollection 2015.","Beyond CD19: Opportunities for Future Development of Targeted Immunotherapy in Pediatric Relapsed-Refractory Acute Leukemia.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has been used as a targeted approach in cancer therapy. Relapsed and refractory acute leukemia in pediatrics  has been difficult to treat with conventional therapy due to dose-limiting toxicities. With the recent success of CD 19 CAR in pediatric patients with B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), this mode of therapy has become a very attractive option for these patients with high-risk disease. In this review, we will discuss current treatment paradigms of pediatric acute leukemia and potential therapeutic targets for additional high-risk populations, including T cell ALL, AML, and infant ALL."

"1169. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2015 Oct;56(10):2180-5. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.56.2180.","[Current status and future development of CAR-T gene therapy].","Adoptive T-cell therapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) technology is a novel approach to cancer immuno-gene therapy. CARs are hybrid proteins consisting of a target-antigen-specific single-chain antibody fragment fused to intracellular T-cell activation domains (CD28 or CD137/CD3ζ receptor). CAR-expressing engineered T lymphocytes can directly recognize and kill tumor cells in an HLA independent manner. In the United States, promising results have  been obtained in clinical trials of adoptive immuno-gene therapy using CD19-CAR-T lymphocytes for the treatment of refractory B-cell malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and malignant lymphoma."

"1170. Scand J Immunol. 2015 Oct;82(4):307-19. doi: 10.1111/sji.12331.","CD19-Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells for Treatment of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia and Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia.","Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) for cancer represents a promising new treatment modality. ACT based on the administration of cytotoxic T cells genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) recognizing CD19 expressed by B cell malignancies has been shown to induce complete lasting responses in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). So far, eleven clinical trials including 99 CLL and ALL patients treated with CAR T cells targeting CD19 have been published, and the results from these trials are promising with impressive clinical responses in heavily pretreated patients. Thus, CAR T cell therapy has induced complete responses in both CLL and ALL, and surprisingly, current results indicate that patients with ALL are more prone to respond than are CLL patients. Importantly, the majority of CAR cell studies have observed severe therapy-associated toxicities, which needs attention. Herein we review current data and discuss key  aspects of this powerful approach to treat and potentially cure B cell malignancies."

"1171. Ther Adv Hematol. 2015 Oct;6(5):228-41. doi: 10.1177/2040620715588916.","CD19-redirected chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells: a promising immunotherapy for children and adults with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).","Relapsed and chemotherapy-refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL)  remain significant causes of cancer-associated morbidity and mortality for children and adults. Development of new molecularly targeted treatment strategies for patients with high-risk B-ALL is thus a major preclinical and clinical priority. Adoptive cellular therapy with patient-derived human T cells genetically engineered to express CD19 redirected chimeric antigen receptors (CD19 CAR T cells) is one immunotherapeutic modality that has recently demonstrated remarkable efficacy in re-inducing remission in patients with multiply relapsed B-ALL. Investigative teams at several major cancer centers are  currently conducting phase I clinical trials in children and/or adults with relapsed/refractory B-ALL to assess the safety and to identify the maximally tolerated dose of each groups CD19 CAR T-cell product. All groups have reported  major clinical toxicities associated with CD19 CAR T-cell treatment, including cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and macrophage activation syndrome, neurologic dysfunction and aplasia of normal B lymphocytes, while CD19 CAR T cells persist in vivo. Toxicities have generally been transient or manageable with supportive care measures. Some patients with life-threatening CD19 CAR T-cell induced sequelae have received anti-cytokine receptor antibody treatment to diminish CRS  symptoms and/or corticosteroids to terminate CAR T-cell proliferation. Remarkably, 67-90% of children and adults with B-ALL treated with CD19 CAR T cells in these trials have achieved morphologic leukemia remission with many patients also in molecular remission. The duration of CD19 CAR T cell persistence in vivo has varied appreciably among treated patients and likely reflects differences in the CD19 CAR constructs utilized at each institution. CD19-positive and CD19-negative B-ALL relapses after CD19 CAR T-cell treatment have occurred in some patients. Phase II trials to assess the efficacy of CD19 CAR T-cell immunotherapy in larger cohorts of patients with relapsed/refractory B-ALL are ongoing or planned."

"1172. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 22;6(28):24884-94. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.4670.","A novel anti-GD2/4-1BB chimeric antigen receptor triggers neuroblastoma cell killing.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells are a promising therapeutic option for patients with cancer. We developed a new CAR directed against the disialoganglioside GD2, a surface molecule expressed in neuroblastoma and in other neuroectoderm-derived neoplasms. The anti-GD2 single-chain variable fragment (scFv) derived from a murine antibody of IgM class was linked, via a human CD8α hinge-transmembrane domain, to the signaling domains of the costimulatory molecules 4-1BB (CD137) and CD3-ζ. The receptor was expressed in T  lymphocytes by retroviral transduction and anti-tumor activities were assessed by targeting GD2-positive neuroblastoma cells using in vitro cytotoxicity assays and a xenograft model. Transduced T cells expressed high levels of anti-GD2 CAR and exerted a robust and specific anti-tumor activity in 4- and 48-hour cultures with neuroblastoma cells. Cytotoxicity was associated with the release of pro-apoptotic molecules such as TRAIL and IFN-γ. These results were confirmed in  a xenograft model, where anti-GD2 CAR T cells infiltrating tumors and persisting  into blood circulation induced massive apoptosis of neuroblastoma cells and completely abrogated tumor growth. This anti-GD2 CAR represents a powerful new tool to redirect T cells against GD2. The preclinical results of this study warrant clinical testing of this approach in neuroblastoma and other GD2-positive malignancies."

"1173. Cancer Res. 2015 Sep 15;75(18):3853-64. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-3321. Epub  2015 Jul 16.","Multiplex Genome-Edited T-cell Manufacturing Platform for Off-the-Shelf Adoptive T-cell Immunotherapies.","Adoptive immunotherapy using autologous T cells endowed with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) has emerged as a powerful means of treating cancer. However, a limitation of this approach is that autologous CAR T cells must be generated on a custom-made basis. Here we show that electroporation of transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN) mRNA allows highly efficient multiplex gene editing in primary human T cells. We use this TALEN-mediated editing approach to develop a process for the large-scale manufacturing of T cells deficient in expression of both their αβ T-cell receptor (TCR) and CD52, a protein targeted by alemtuzumab, a chemotherapeutic agent. Functionally, T cells  manufactured with this process do not mediate graft-versus-host reactions and are rendered resistant to destruction by alemtuzumab. These characteristics enable the administration of alemtuzumab concurrently or prior to engineered T cells, supporting their engraftment. Furthermore, endowing the TALEN-engineered cells with a CD19 CAR led to efficient destruction of CD19(+) tumor targets even in the presence of the chemotherapeutic agent. These results demonstrate the applicability of TALEN-mediated genome editing to a scalable process, which enables the manufacturing of third-party CAR T-cell immunotherapies against arbitrary targets. As such, CAR T-cell immunotherapies can therefore be used in an off-the-shelf manner akin to other biologic immunopharmaceuticals"

"1174. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Sep 15;21(18):4062-72. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0428.  Epub 2015 Jun 9.","Bioactivity and Safety of IL13Rα2-Redirected Chimeric Antigen Receptor CD8+ T Cells in Patients with Recurrent Glioblastoma.","PURPOSE: A first-in-human pilot safety and feasibility trial evaluating chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered, autologous primary human CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) targeting IL13Rα2 for the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Three patients with recurrent GBM were treated with IL13(E13Y)-zetakine CD8(+) CTL targeting IL13Rα2. Patients received up to 12 local infusions at a maximum dose of 10(8) CAR-engineered T cells via a catheter/reservoir system. RESULTS: We demonstrate the feasibility of manufacturing sufficient numbers of autologous CTL clones expressing an IL13(E13Y)-zetakine CAR for redirected HLA-independent IL13Rα2-specific effector function for a cohort of patients diagnosed with GBM. Intracranial delivery of the IL13-zetakine(+) CTL clones into the resection cavity of 3 patients with recurrent disease was well-tolerated, with manageable temporary brain inflammation. Following infusion of IL13-zetakine(+) CTLs, evidence for transient anti-glioma responses was observed  in 2 of the patients. Analysis of tumor tissue from 1 patient before and after T-cell therapy suggested reduced overall IL13Rα2 expression within the tumor following treatment. MRI analysis of another patient indicated an increase in tumor necrotic volume at the site of IL13-zetakine(+) T-cell administration. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide promising first-in-human clinical experience  for intracranial administration of IL13Rα2-specific CAR T cells for the treatment of GBM, establishing a foundation on which future refinements of adoptive CAR T-cell therapies can be applied."

"1175. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 15;6(27):23735-47.","Retargeted human avidin-CAR T cells for adoptive immunotherapy of EGFRvIII expressing gliomas and their evaluation via optical imaging.","There has been significant progress in the design of chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) for adoptive immunotherapy targeting tumor-associated antigens. However, the challenge of monitoring the therapy in real time has been continually ignored. To address this issue, we developed optical molecular imaging approaches to evaluate a recently reported novel CAR strategy for adoptive immunotherapy against glioma xenografts expressing EGFRvIII. We initially biotinylated a novel  anti-EGFRvIII monoclonal antibody (biotin-4G1) to pre-target EGFRvIII+ gliomas and then redirect activated avidin-CAR expressing T cells against the pre-targeted biotin-4G1. By optical imaging study and bio-distribution analysis,  we confirmed the specificity of pre-target and target and determined the optimal  time for T cells adoptive transfer in vivo. The results showed this therapeutic strategy offered efficient therapy effect to EGFRvIII+ glioma-bearing mice and implied that optical imaging is a highly useful tool in aiding in the instruction of clinical CAR-T cells adoptive transfer in future."

"1176. Sci Transl Med. 2015 Sep 2;7(303):303ra139. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aac5415.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells persist and induce sustained remissions in relapsed refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.","Patients with multiply relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  have a poor prognosis. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells targeting CD19 have the potential to improve on the low complete response rates with conventional therapies by inducing sustained remissions in patients with refractory B cell malignancies. We previously reported preliminary results on three patients with refractory CLL. We report the mature results from our initial trial using CAR-modified T cells to treat 14 patients with relapsed and refractory CLL. Autologous T cells transduced with a CD19-directed CAR (CTL019) lentiviral vector were infused into patients with relapsed/refractory CLL at doses of 0.14 × 10(8) to 11 × 10(8) CTL019 cells (median, 1.6 × 10(8) cells). Patients were monitored for toxicity, response, expansion, and persistence of circulating CTL019 T cells. The overall response rate in these heavily pretreated CLL patients was 8 of 14 (57%), with 4 complete remissions (CR) and 4 partial remissions (PR). The in vivo expansion of the CAR T cells correlated with clinical responses, and the CAR T cells persisted and remained functional beyond  4 years in the first two patients achieving CR. No patient in CR has relapsed. All responding patients developed B cell aplasia and experienced cytokine release syndrome, coincident with T cell proliferation. Minimal residual disease was not  detectable in patients who achieved CR, suggesting that disease eradication may be possible in some patients with advanced CLL."

"1177. Cancer Res. 2015 Sep 1;75(17):3596-607. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-15-0159.","Affinity-Tuned ErbB2 or EGFR Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells Exhibit an Increased Therapeutic Index against Tumors in Mice.","Target-mediated toxicity is a major limitation in the development of chimeric antigen T-cell receptors (CAR) for adoptive cell therapy of solid tumors. In this study, we developed a strategy to adjust the affinities of the scFv component of  CAR to discriminate tumors overexpressing the target from normal tissues that express it at physiologic levels. A CAR-expressing T-cell panel was generated with target antigen affinities varying over three orders of magnitude. High-affinity cells recognized target expressed at any level, including at levels in normal cells that were undetectable by flow cytometry. Affinity-tuned cells exhibited robust antitumor efficacy similar to high-affinity cells, but spared normal cells expressing physiologic target levels. The use of affinity-tuned scFvs offers a strategy to empower wider use of CAR T cells against validated targets widely overexpressed on solid tumors, including those considered undruggable by this approach."

"1178. Cancer Res. 2015 Sep 1;75(17):3505-18. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-15-0139.","Tuning Sensitivity of CAR to EGFR Density Limits Recognition of Normal Tissue While Maintaining Potent Antitumor Activity.","Many tumors overexpress tumor-associated antigens relative to normal tissue, such as EGFR. This limits targeting by human T cells modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) due to potential for deleterious recognition of normal cells. We sought to generate CAR(+) T cells capable of distinguishing malignant from normal cells based on the disparate density of EGFR expression by generating two CARs from monoclonal antibodies that differ in affinity. T cells with low-affinity nimotuzumab-CAR selectively targeted cells overexpressing EGFR, but  exhibited diminished effector function as the density of EGFR decreased. In contrast, the activation of T cells bearing high-affinity cetuximab-CAR was not affected by the density of EGFR. In summary, we describe the generation of CARs able to tune T-cell activity to the level of EGFR expression in which a CAR with  reduced affinity enabled T cells to distinguish malignant from nonmalignant cells."

"1179. Cytotherapy. 2015 Sep;17(9):1251-67. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2015.05.013. Epub 2015 Jul 23.","Low-cost generation of Good Manufacturing Practice-grade CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cells using piggyBac gene transfer and patient-derived materials.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Protocols for the production of CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR19) T cells are often complex and expensive because of the use of retroviral and lentiviral vectors or the need for CAR19 T-cell enrichment. We aimed to simplify the generation of CAR19 T cells from the peripheral blood of normal donors and patients using the piggyBac transposon system of gene modification. METHODS: We varied electroporation voltage, cytokines and stimulation conditions  for the generation and expansion of CAR19 T cells over a 3-week culture period. RESULTS: Using optimized electroporation voltage, interleukin-15 alone and co-culturing CAR T cells with peripheral blood mononuclear cells, we were able to expand CAR19 T-cell cultures by up to 765-fold over 3 weeks in normal donors and  180-fold in patients with B-cell malignancies. Final median CAR19 expression of 72% was seen in normal donors, and 81% was seen in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia or non-Hodgkin lymphoma. CAR19 T cells produced interferon gamma on stimulation with CD19(+) cell lines and efficiently lysed both CD19(+) cell lines and primary leukemia cells. In addition, combining CAR expression with an inducible caspase safety switch allowed elimination of CAR19 T cells by the application of a small molecule dimerizer. DISCUSSION: We have produced a simple, inexpensive and easily adoptable protocol  for the generation of CAR19 T cells suitable for use in clinical trials using the piggyBac transposon system. This provides a robust platform for further enhancing the T-cell product and testing new CAR technologies."

"1180. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Sep;42(9):1031-5.","[Current Cancer Immunotherapy Using Activated Lymphocytes - Do Lymphocytes Actually Recognize Cancer Cells ?].","Molecular cloning of interleukin-2(IL-2)has enabled adoptive cell therapy(ACT)to  be established by using autologous activated lymphocytes. The low of regenerative medicine will promote the active development of ACT for public use, and ACTs that utilize tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes(TIL), in vitro tumor-sensitized lymphocytes, natural killer T cells, and gammadelta T cells are being evaluated as advanced medical treatments in Japan. In addition, chimeric antigen receptor genemodified T(CAR-T)cells and T cell receptor gene-modified T(TCR-T)cells are available for investigational clinical use. CART and TCR-T cells have been associated with serious adverse events as well as drastic clinical efficacies, indicating the importance of choosing the antigens to be targeted. Presently, it  is accurate to state that lymphocytes do recognize cancer cells. Clinical ACT research focusing on TIL and mutated cancer antigens will be initiated for the development of personalized immunotherapy for cancer in the future."

"1181. Mol Ther. 2015 Sep;23(9):1507-18. doi: 10.1038/mt.2015.104. Epub 2015 Jun 10.","A Multidrug-resistant Engineered CAR T Cell for Allogeneic Combination Immunotherapy.","The adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell represents a highly promising strategy to fight against multiple cancers. The clinical outcome of such therapies is intimately linked to the ability of effector cells to engraft, proliferate, and specifically kill tumor cells within patients. When allogeneic CAR T-cell infusion is considered, host versus graft and graft versus  host reactions must be avoided to prevent rejection of adoptively transferred cells, host tissue damages and to elicit significant antitumoral outcome. This work proposes to address these three requirements through the development of multidrug-resistant T cell receptor ab-deficient CAR T cells. We demonstrate that these engineered T cells displayed efficient antitumor activity and proliferated  in the presence of purine and pyrimidine nucleoside analogues, currently used in  clinic as preconditioning lymphodepleting regimens. The absence of TCRαβ at their cell surface along with their purine nucleotide analogues-resistance properties could prevent their alloreactivity and enable them to resist to lymphodepleting regimens that may be required to avoid their ablation via HvG reaction. By providing a basic framework to develop a universal T cell compatible with allogeneic adoptive transfer, this work is laying the foundation stone of the large-scale utilization of CAR T-cell immunotherapies."

"1182. Oncotarget. 2015 Aug 28;6(25):21533-46.","A fully human chimeric antigen receptor with potent activity against cancer cells but reduced risk for off-tumor toxicity.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) can redirect T cells against antigen-expressing tumors in an HLA-independent manner. To date, various CARs have been constructed  using mouse single chain antibody variable fragments (scFvs) of high affinity that are immunogenic in humans and have the potential to mediate on-target toxicity. Here, we developed and evaluated a fully human CAR comprised of the human C4 folate receptor-alpha (αFR)-specific scFv coupled to intracellular T cell signaling domains. Human T cells transduced to express the C4 CAR specifically secreted proinflammatory cytokine and exerted cytolytic functions when cultured with αFR-expressing tumors in vitro. Adoptive transfer of C4 CAR T  cells mediated the regression of large, established human ovarian cancer in a xenogeneic mouse model. Relative to a murine MOv19 scFv-based αFR CAR, C4 CAR T cells mediated comparable cytotoxic tumor activity in vitro and in vivo but had lower affinity for αFR protein and exhibited reduced recognition of normal cells  expressing low levels of αFR. Thus, T cells expressing a fully human CAR of intermediate affinity can efficiently kill antigen-expressing tumors in vitro and in vivo and may overcome issues of transgene immunogenicity and on-target off-tumor toxicity that plague trials utilizing CARs containing mouse-derived, high affinity scFvs."

"1183. World J Stem Cells. 2015 Aug 26;7(7):1022-38. doi: 10.4252/wjsc.v7.i7.1022.","Adoptive immunotherapy for acute leukemia: New insights in chimeric antigen receptors.","Relapses remain a major concern in acute leukemia. It is well known that leukemia stem cells (LSCs) hide in hematopoietic niches and escape to the immune system surveillance through the outgrowth of poorly immunogenic tumor-cell variants and  the suppression of the active immune response. Despite the introduction of new reagents and new therapeutic approaches, no treatment strategies have been able to definitively eradicate LSCs. However, recent adoptive immunotherapy in cancer  is expected to revolutionize our way to fight against this disease, by redirecting the immune system in order to eliminate relapse issues. Initially described at the onset of the 90s, chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are recombinant receptors transferred in various T cell subsets, providing specific antigens binding in a non-major histocompatibility complex restricted manner, and effective on a large variety of human leukocyte antigen-divers cell populations.  Once transferred, engineered T cells act like an expanding living drug specifically targeting the tumor-associated antigen, and ensure long-term anti-tumor memory. Over the last decades, substantial improvements have been made in CARs design. CAR T cells have finally reached the clinical practice and first  clinical trials have shown promising results. In acute lymphoblastic leukemia, high rate of complete and prolonged clinical responses have been observed after anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy, with specific but manageable adverse events. In this review, our goal was to describe CAR structures and functions, and to summarize recent data regarding pre-clinical studies and clinical trials in acute leukemia."

"1185. Front Oncol. 2015 Aug 7;5:181. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2015.00181. eCollection 2015.","Immunotherapy of Childhood Sarcomas.","Pediatric sarcomas are a heterogeneous group of malignant tumors of bone and soft tissue origin. Although more than 100 different histologic subtypes have been described, the majority of pediatric cases belong to the Ewings family of tumors, rhabdomyosarcoma and osteosarcoma. Most patients that present with localized stage are curable with surgery and/or chemotherapy; however, those with metastatic disease at diagnosis or those who experience a relapse continue to have a very poor prognosis. New therapies for these patients are urgently needed. Immunotherapy is an established treatment modality for both liquid and solid tumors, and in pediatrics, most notably for neuroblastoma and osteosarcoma. In the past, immunomodulatory agents such as interferon, interleukin-2, and liposomal-muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl-ethanolamine have been tried, with some activity seen in subsets of patients; additionally, various cancer vaccines have  been studied with possible benefit. Monoclonal antibody therapies against tumor antigens such as disialoganglioside GD2 or immune checkpoint targets such as CTLA-4 and PD-1 are being actively explored in pediatric sarcomas. Building on the success of adoptive T cell therapy for EBV-related lymphoma, strategies to redirect T cells using chimeric antigen receptors and bispecific antibodies are rapidly evolving with potential for the treatment of sarcomas. This review will focus on recent preclinical and clinical developments in targeted agents for pediatric sarcomas with emphasis on the immunobiology of immune checkpoints, immunoediting, tumor microenvironment, antibody engineering, cell engineering, and tumor vaccines. The future integration of antibody-based and cell-based therapies into an overall treatment strategy of sarcoma will be discussed."

"1186. Gene Ther. 2015 Aug;22(8):675-84. doi: 10.1038/gt.2015.29. Epub 2015 Apr 1.","B7H6-specific chimeric antigen receptors lead to tumor elimination and host antitumor immunity.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies have demonstrated durable and potentially curative therapeutic efficacy against B-cell leukemia in clinical trials. A CAR strategy can target any tumor surface antigens as long as an antigen-binding receptor can be generated. New CARs that target solid tumors and  have the potential to target multiple tumor types are needed. In this study, B7H6, a ligand for the NK cell activating receptor NKp30, was targeted to create  a CAR that targets multiple tumor types. B7H6 is expressed on various primary human tumors, including leukemia, lymphoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but it is not constitutively expressed on normal tissues. B7H6-specific CAR T cells have robust cellular cytotoxicity and interferon-γ secretion when co-cultured with B7H6+ tumor cells, and they exhibit little self-reactivity to immature dendritic cells or pro-inflammatory monocytes. In vivo, B7H6-specific CAR T cells greatly enhanced the survival of RMA/B7H6 lymphoma-bearing mice. The  long-term survivor mice were protected against a B7H6-deficient tumor re-challenge. This CAR therapy also decreased tumor burden in a murine ovarian cancer model. In conclusion, B7H6-specific CARs have the potential to treat B7H6+ hematologic and solid tumors."

"1187. Hum Gene Ther. 2015 Aug;26(8):498-505. doi: 10.1089/hum.2015.054.","CAR T-Cell Therapy: The Role of Physical Barriers and Immunosuppression in Lymphoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells have shown remarkable results in patients with B-cell leukemia and lymphoma. However, while CAR T-cells have shown complete responses in a majority of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), lymphomas are more difficult to treat. Different CAR designs and conditioning protocols seem to affect the persistence of patient responses. However, factors that determine if patients receiving the same CARs will respond or not remain obscure. In Sweden, a phase I/IIa trial using third-generation CAR T-cells is ongoing in which we intend to compare tumor biology and immunology, in each patient, to treatment response. CAR T-cell therapy is a powerful tool to add to the treatment options for this patient group but we need to perform the necessary basic research on the multifactorial mechanisms of action to give patients the best possible option of survival. Such studies are also crucial to expand the success of CAR T-cells beyond CD19+ B-cell malignancy. This review will focus on  possible barriers of treating lymphoma to define factors that need to be investigated to develop the next generation of CAR T-cell therapy."

"1188. J Immunol. 2015 Aug 1;195(3):755-61. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1500751.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor- and TCR-Modified T Cells Enter Main Street and Wall Street.","The field of adoptive cell transfer (ACT) is currently comprised of chimeric Ag receptor (CAR)- and TCR-engineered T cells and has emerged from principles of basic immunology to paradigm-shifting clinical immunotherapy. ACT of T cells engineered to express artificial receptors that target cells of choice is an exciting new approach for cancer, and it holds equal promise for chronic infection and autoimmunity. Using principles of synthetic biology, advances in immunology, and genetic engineering have made it possible to generate human T cells that display desired specificities and enhanced functionalities. Clinical trials in patients with advanced B cell leukemias and lymphomas treated with CD19-specific CAR T cells have induced durable remissions in adults and children. The prospects for the widespread availability of engineered T cells have changed  dramatically given the recent entry of the pharmaceutical industry to this arena. In this overview, we discuss some of the challenges and opportunities that face the field of ACT."

"1189. Trends Immunol. 2015 Aug;36(8):494-502. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2015.06.004. Epub 2015  Jul 11.","Engineering CAR-T cells: Design concepts.","Despite being empirically designed based on a simple understanding of TCR signaling, T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have been remarkably successful in treating patients with advanced refractory B cell malignancies. However, many challenges remain in improving the safety and efficacy of this therapy and extending it toward the treatment of epithelial cancers. Other aspects of TCR signaling beyond those directly provided by CD3ζ and CD28 phosphorylation strongly influence a T cells ability to differentiate and acquire full effector functions. Here, we discuss how the principles of TCR recognition, including spatial constraints, Kon/Koff rates, and synapse formation, along with in-depth analysis of CAR signaling might be applied to develop safer and more effective synthetic tumor targeting receptors."

"1190. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Aug;23(4):915-8. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2015.04.001.","[High Mobility Group Chromosal Protein N2 Is Expected to be as A Target of Cellular Immunetherapy in Leukemia and Tumors].","Recently, chimeric antigen receptors T cells (CAR T) have made a breakthrough in  the treatment of lymphoma and leukemia, open a new path for the tumor cellular immunetherapy. It is the key for CAR T to take the gene which can identify the CD19 antigen of lymphoblastic leukemia into lymphocytes, enable it to kill leukemia cells with specific cell-surface loci. The same principle also applies to other aspects, if we find specific target genes of lymphocytes. Recent studies have found that high mobility group protein N2 (high mobility group chromosal protein N2, HMGN2) is the excellent target of tumor-associated antigen in lymphocytes, is the antitumor effector molecule of CD8(+) T cells, which has the  ability of trends and specific identify/binding in myeloid leukemia, breast cancer, cervical cancer and other tumor cells. HMGN2 is expected to be used for the preparation of specific identification of tumor lymphocytes and to treat more leukemia and tumors. This article focuses on the strucure and function of HMGN and the chemotaxis and antitumor effect of HMGN2 in leukemia and tumors."

"1192. Blood. 2015 Jul 23;126(4):478-85. doi: 10.1182/blood-2015-03-585091. Epub 2015 Jun 11.","A drive through cellular therapy for CLL in 2015: allogeneic cell transplantation and CARs.","Over the past decade the development of safer reduced-intensity conditioning regimens, expanded donor pools, advances in supportive care, and prevention/management of graft-versus-host disease have expanded stem cell transplantation (SCT) availability for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. However, there are now increasingly active treatment options available  for CLL patients with favorable toxicity profiles and convenient administration schedules. This raises the critical issue of whether or not attainment of cure remains a necessary goal. It is now less clear that treatment with curative intention and with significant toxicity is required for long-term survival in CLL. In addition, the demonstrated safety and activity of genetically modified chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells present the opportunity of harnessing the power of the immune system to kill CLL cells without the need for SCT. We attempt to define the role of SCT in the era of targeted therapies and discuss questions  that remain to be answered. Furthermore, we highlight the potential for exciting  new cellular therapy using genetically modified anti-CD19 CAR T cells and discuss its potential to alter treatment paradigms for CLL."

"1193. Med Sci Monit. 2015 Jul 21;21:2110-5. doi: 10.12659/MSM.893791.","Construction of Anti-CD20 Single-Chain Antibody-CD28-CD137-TCRζ Recombinant Genetic Modified T Cells and its Treatment Effect on B Cell Lymphoma.","BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy has been explored as a new therapy for B cell lymphoma, which is a non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Because CD20 is a B lymphocyte-specific marker, anti-CD20 single chain-tagged T lymphocytes have already begun to be experimentally used in B cell lymphoma treatment, but its use is still limited because of its unspecific targeting. T cells transfected with CD28 and CD137 can  significantly improve the ability of cytokines secretion and anti-tumor effect, as well as extending T cell survival time and improving their proliferation ability. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Genes containing anti-CD20-CD28-CD137-TCR were constructed. After cloning and sequencing, the plasmid was constructed and packaged by lentivirus. It was transfected to the peripheral blood T lymphocyte after identification transfection to induce the fusion protein expression. The cells were incubated with Raji cells and the LDH test was performed to detect the cytotoxic effect of CAR-T cells; the tumor volume and survival rate were measured to observe its inhibitory effect on B cell lymphoma in nude mice. RESULTS: Gene with anti-CD20-CD28-CD137-TCR was successfully constructed and transfected to the T cell surface. LDH assay revealed that CAR-T cells can kill the Raji cells with a killing rate of 32.89±6.26%. It can significantly inhibit B cell lymphoma growth in nude mice. CONCLUSIONS: T lymphocytes transfected with anti-CD20-CD28-CD137-TCRζ fusion gene can kill B cell lymphoma, which could provide a new strategy for tumor treatment."

"1194. Cancer Res. 2015 Jul 15;75(14):2800-2810. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-3041. Epub 2015 May 15.","Tumor-Promoting Desmoplasia Is Disrupted by Depleting FAP-Expressing Stromal Cells.","Malignant cells drive the generation of a desmoplastic and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Cancer-associated stromal cells (CASC) are a heterogeneous population that provides both negative and positive signals for tumor cell growth and metastasis. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is a marker of a major subset of CASCs in virtually all carcinomas. Clinically, FAP expression serves as an independent negative prognostic factor for multiple types of human malignancies. Prior studies established that depletion of FAP(+) cells inhibits tumor growth by augmenting antitumor immunity. However, the potential for immune-independent effects on tumor growth have not been defined. Herein, we  demonstrate that FAP(+) CASCs are required for maintenance of the provisional tumor stroma because depletion of these cells, by adoptive transfer of FAP-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, reduced extracellular matrix proteins and glycosaminoglycans. Adoptive transfer of FAP-CAR T cells also decreased tumor vascular density and restrained growth of desmoplastic human lung cancer xenografts and syngeneic murine pancreatic cancers in an immune-independent fashion. Adoptive transfer of FAP-CAR T cells also restrained  autochthonous pancreatic cancer growth. These data distinguish the function of FAP(+) CASCs from other CASC subsets and provide support for further development  of FAP(+) stromal cell-targeted therapies for the treatment of solid tumors."

"1195. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Jul 15;21(14):3149-59. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1421.  Epub 2015 Apr 7.","Phase I Hepatic Immunotherapy for Metastases Study of Intra-Arterial Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified T-cell Therapy for CEA+ Liver Metastases.","PURPOSE: Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-T) have demonstrated encouraging results in early-phase clinical trials. Successful adaptation of CAR-T technology for CEA-expressing adenocarcinoma liver metastases, a major cause of death in patients with gastrointestinal cancers, has yet to be achieved. We sought to test intrahepatic delivery of anti-CEA CAR-T through percutaneous hepatic artery infusions (HAIs). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We conducted a phase I trial to test HAI of CAR-T in patients with CEA(+) liver metastases. Six patients completed the protocol, and 3 received anti-CEA CAR-T HAIs alone in dose-escalation fashion (10(8), 10(9), and  10(10) cells). We treated an additional 3 patients with the maximum planned CAR-T HAI dose (10(10) cells × 3) along with systemic IL2 support. RESULTS: Four patients had more than 10 liver metastases, and patients received a mean of 2.5 lines of conventional systemic therapy before enrollment. No patient  suffered a grade 3 or 4 adverse event related to the CAR-T HAIs. One patient remains alive with stable disease at 23 months following CAR-T HAI, and 5 patients died of progressive disease. Among the patients in the cohort that received systemic IL2 support, CEA levels decreased 37% (range, 19%-48%) from baseline. Biopsies demonstrated an increase in liver metastasis necrosis or fibrosis in 4 of 6 patients. Elevated serum IFNγ levels correlated with IL2 administration and CEA decreases. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated the safety of anti-CEA CAR-T HAIs with encouraging signals of clinical activity in a heavily pretreated population with  large tumor burdens. Further clinical testing of CAR-T HAIs for liver metastases  is warranted."

"1197. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 14;10(7):e0133152. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133152. eCollection 2015.","IGF1R- and ROR1-Specific CAR T Cells as a Potential Therapy for High Risk Sarcomas.","Patients with metastatic or recurrent and refractory sarcomas have a dismal prognosis. Therefore, new targeted therapies are urgently needed. This study was  designed to evaluate chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting the type I insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF1R) or tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 1 (ROR1) molecules for their therapeutic potential against sarcomas. Here, we report that IGF1R (15/15) and ROR1 (11/15) were highly expressed in sarcoma cell lines including Ewing sarcoma, osteosarcoma, alveolar or embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, and fibrosarcoma. IGF1R and ROR1 CAR T cells derived from eight healthy donors using the Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon system were cytotoxic against sarcoma cells and produced high levels of IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-13 in an antigen-specific manner. IGF1R and ROR1 CAR T cells generated from three sarcoma  patients released significant amounts of IFN-γ in response to sarcoma stimulation. The adoptive transfer of IGF1R and ROR1 CAR T cells derived from a sarcoma patient significantly reduced tumor growth in pre-established, systemically disseminated and localized osteosarcoma xenograft models in NSG mice. Infusion of IGF1R and ROR1 CAR T cells also prolonged animal survival in a  localized sarcoma model using NOD/scid mice. Our data indicate that both IGF1R and ROR1 can be effectively targeted by SB modified CAR T cells and that such CAR T cells may be useful in the treatment of high risk sarcoma patients."

"1198. Sci Rep. 2015 Jul 9;5:11483. doi: 10.1038/srep11483.","CAR-Engineered NK Cells Targeting Wild-Type EGFR and EGFRvIII Enhance Killing of  Glioblastoma and Patient-Derived Glioblastoma Stem Cells.","Glioblastoma (GB) remains the most aggressive primary brain malignancy. Adoptive  transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified immune cells has emerged as  a promising anti-cancer approach, yet the potential utility of CAR-engineered natural killer (NK) cells to treat GB has not been explored. Tumors from approximately 50% of GB patients express wild-type EGFR (wtEGFR) and in fewer cases express both wtEGFR and the mutant form EGFRvIII; however, previously reported CAR T cell studies only focus on targeting EGFRvIII. Here we explore whether both wtEGFR and EGFRvIII can be effectively targeted by CAR-redirected NK cells to treat GB. We transduced human NK cell lines NK-92 and NKL, and primary NK cells with a lentiviral construct harboring a second generation CAR targeting  both wtEGFR and EGFRvIII and evaluated the anti-GB efficacy of EGFR-CAR-modified  NK cells. EGFR-CAR-engineered NK cells displayed enhanced cytolytic capability and IFN-γ production when co-cultured with GB cells or patient-derived GB stem cells in an EGFR-dependent manner. In two orthotopic GB xenograft mouse models, intracranial administration of NK-92-EGFR-CAR cells resulted in efficient suppression of tumor growth and significantly prolonged the tumor-bearing mice survival. These findings support intracranial administration of NK-92-EGFR-CAR cells represents a promising clinical strategy to treat GB."

"1199. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2015 Jul;64(7):817-29. doi: 10.1007/s00262-015-1692-6. Epub 2015 Apr 8.","Liver myeloid-derived suppressor cells expand in response to liver metastases in  mice and inhibit the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-CEA CAR-T.","Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cell (CAR-T) technology, a promising immunotherapeutic tool, has not been applied specifically to treat liver metastases (LM). While CAR-T delivery to LM can be optimized by regional intrahepatic infusion, we propose that liver CD11b+Gr-1+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells (L-MDSC) will inhibit the efficacy of CAR-T in the intrahepatic  space. We studied anti-CEA CAR-T in a murine model of CEA+ LM and identified mechanisms through which L-MDSC expand and inhibit CAR-T function. We established CEA+ LM in mice and studied purified L-MDSC and responses to treatment with intrahepatic anti-CEA CAR-T infusions. L-MDSC expanded threefold in response to LM, and their expansion was dependent on GM-CSF, which was produced by tumor cells. L-MDSC utilized PD-L1 to suppress anti-tumor responses through engagement  of PD-1 on CAR-T. GM-CSF, in cooperation with STAT3, promoted L-MDSC PD-L1 expression. CAR-T efficacy was rescued when mice received CAR-T in combination with MDSC depletion, GM-CSF neutralization to prevent MDSC expansion, or PD-L1 blockade. As L-MDSC suppressed anti-CEA CAR-T, infusion of anti-CEA CAR-T in tandem with agents targeting L-MDSC is a rational strategy for future clinical trials."

"1200. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Jul 1;21(13):2993-3002. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-2920. Epub 2015 Apr 2.","CMVpp65 Vaccine Enhances the Antitumor Efficacy of Adoptively Transferred CD19-Redirected CMV-Specific T Cells.","PURPOSE: T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) recognizing CD19 can induce complete remission of B-cell malignancies in clinical trials; however, in some disease settings, CAR therapy confers only modest clinical benefit due to attenuated persistence of CAR T cells. The purpose of this study was to enhance persistence and augment the antitumor activity of adoptively transferred CD19CAR T cells by restimulating CAR(+) T cells through an endogenous cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific T-cell receptor. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: CMV-specific T cells from CMV seropositive healthy donors were selected after stimulation with pp65 protein and transduced with clinical-grade lentivirus expressing the CD19R:CD28:ζ/EGFRt CAR. The resultant bispecific T cells, targeting CMV and CD19, were expanded via CD19 CAR-mediated signals using CD19-expressing cells. RESULTS: The bispecific T cells proliferated vigorously after engagement with either endogenous CMVpp65 T-cell receptors or engineered CD19 CARs, exhibiting specific cytolytic activity and IFNγ secretion. Upon adoptive transfer into immunodeficient mice bearing human lymphomas, the bispecific T cells exhibited proliferative response and enhanced antitumor activity following CMVpp65 peptide  vaccine administration. CONCLUSIONS: We have redirected CMV-specific T cells to recognize and lyse tumor  cells via CD19CARs, while maintaining their ability to proliferate in response to CMV antigen stimulation. These results illustrate the clinical applications of CMV vaccine to augment the antitumor activity of adoptively transferred CD19CAR T cells in patients with B-cell malignancies."

"1201. J Neurooncol. 2015 Jul;123(3):449-57. doi: 10.1007/s11060-015-1729-x. Epub 2015 Feb 15.","Glioblastoma stem cells and stem cell-targeting immunotherapies.","Advancements in immunotherapeutics promise new possibilities for the creation of  glioblastoma (GBM) treatment options. Ongoing work in cancer stem cell biology has progressively elucidated the role of this tumor sub-population in oncogenesis and has distinguished them as prime therapeutic targets. Current clinical trials  take a multifaceted approach with the intention of harnessing the intrinsic cytotoxic capabilities of the immune system to directly target glioblastoma cancer stem cells (gCSC) or indirectly disrupt their stromal microenvironment. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), dendritic cell (DC) vaccines, and chimeric antigen  receptor (CAR) T cell therapies have emerged as the most common approaches, with  particular iterations incorporating cancer stem cell antigenic markers in their treatment designs. Ongoing work to determine the comprehensive antigenic profile  of the gCSC in conjunction with efforts to counter the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment holds much promise in future immunotherapeutic strategies against GBM. Given recent advancements in these fields, we believe there is tremendous potential to improve outcomes of GBM patients in the continuing evolution of immunotherapies targeted to cancer stem cell populations in GBM."

"1202. Semin Hematol. 2015 Jul;52(3):207-14. doi: 10.1053/j.seminhematol.2015.03.006. Epub 2015 Mar 17.","Immunotherapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia.","Despite longstanding efforts in basic research and clinical studies, the prognosis for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains poor. About half of the patients are not medically fit for intensive induction therapy to induce a complete remission and are treated with palliative treatment concepts. The patients medically fit for intensive induction therapy have a high complete remission rate but the majority suffers from relapse due to chemo-refractory leukemic cells. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation as post-remission therapy can significantly reduce the likelihood of relapse, but it is associated with a high rate of morbidity and mortality. Novel therapeutic concepts are therefore urgently sought after. During recent years, the focus has shifted towards the development of novel immunotherapeutic strategies. Some of the most promising are drug-conjugated monoclonal antibodies, T-cell engaging antibody constructs, adoptive transfer with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, and dendritic cell vaccination. Here, we review recent progress in these four fields and speculate about the optimal time points during the course of AML treatment for their application."

"1203. Blood. 2015 Jun 18;125(25):3905-16. doi: 10.1182/blood-2015-01-621474. Epub 2015  May 4.","Tumor indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) inhibits CD19-CAR T cells and is downregulated by lymphodepleting drugs.","Although T cells expressing CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are a promising new therapy for B-cell malignancies, objective responses are observed at lower frequencies in patients with lymphoma than in those with acute B-cell leukemia. We postulated that the tumor microenvironment suppresses CAR-expressing T cells (CARTs) through the activity of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), an intracellular enzyme that converts tryptophan into metabolites that inhibit T -:  cell activity. To investigate the effects of tumor IDO on CD19-CART therapy, we used a xenograft lymphoma model expressing IDO as a transgene. CD19-CARTs inhibited IDO-negative tumor growth but had no effect on IDO-positive tumors. An  IDO inhibitor (1-methyl-tryptophan) restored IDO-positive tumor control. Moreover, tryptophan metabolites inhibited interleukin (IL)-2-, IL-7-, and IL-15-dependent expansion of CARTs; diminished their proliferation, cytotoxicity, and cytokine secretion in vitro in response to CD19 recognition; and increased their apoptosis. Inhibition of CD19-CARTs was not mitigated by the incorporation  of costimulatory domains, such as 4-1BB, into the CD19-CAR. Finally, we found that fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, frequently used before CART administration, downregulated IDO expression in lymphoma cells and improved the antitumor activity of CD19-CART in vivo. Because tumor IDO inhibits CD19-CARTs, antagonizing this enzyme may benefit CD19-CART therapy."

"1204. Oncolytic Virother. 2015 Jun 18;4:75-82. doi: 10.2147/OV.S54738. eCollection 2015.","Novel therapeutic strategies in human malignancy: combining immunotherapy and oncolytic virotherapy.","Results from randomized clinical trials over the last several years have finally  begun to demonstrate the potential of oncolytic viral therapies to treat a variety of cancers. One reason for these successes has been the realization that  this platform is most effective when considered primarily as an immunotherapy. Cancer immunotherapy has also made dramatic strides recently with antibodies capable of blocking immune checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive T-cell therapies, notably CAR T-cells, leading a panel of novel and highly clinically effective therapies. It is clear therefore that an understanding of how and when these complementary approaches can most effectively be combined offers the real hope of moving beyond simply treating the disease and toward starting to talk about curative therapies. In this review we discuss approaches to combining these therapeutic platforms, both through engineering the viral vectors to more beneficially interact with the host immune response during therapy, as well as through the direct combinations of different therapeutics. This primarily, but not exclusively focuses on strains of oncolytic vaccinia virus. Some of the results reported to date, primarily in pre-clinical models but also in early clinical trials, are dramatic and hold great promise for the future development of similar therapies and their translation into cancer therapies."

"1205. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2015 Jun-Sep;28(2-3):116-23. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2015.10.008. Epub 2015 Oct 22.","Antibodies: Immunoconjugates and autologous cellular therapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","Using a case study of a 57-year-old man with relapsed/refractory precursor-B (pre-B) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), this review discusses treatment with  immunoconjugates and autologous therapy in acute ALL. Three therapies--blinatumomab, inotuzumab, and CAR T cells--are considered here, each with advantages in specific clinical situations. These therapies represent some of the exciting advances that have been made in the treatment of ALL over the last several years."

"1206. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2015 Jun;13(6 Suppl 7):1-23.","Novel Management Options for Adult Patients With Progressive Acute Lymphoblastic  Leukemia: A Case-Study Compendium.","Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy characterized by highly proliferative immature lymphoid cells in the bone marrow  and peripheral blood. In adults, ALL accounts for approximately 20% of all adult  leukemias. ALL carries a poor prognosis in adults. The 5-year overall survival is 24% in patients ages 40 to 59 years and 18% in patients ages 60 to 69 years. ALL  can be grouped into different categories according to its cell lineage (B cell or T cell), the presence or absence of the Philadelphia chromosome, and various cytogenetic and molecular classifications. A main goal of treatment is to allow the patient to achieve a complete remission and to consolidate this remission with either a maintenance regimen or an allogeneic stem cell transplant. Although the overall rate of complete remission following frontline therapy for newly diagnosed ALL is high, the majority of patients experience a disease relapse. In  general, the duration of initial complete remission impacts the patient’s prognosis and response to further therapies. Subsequent treatments must balance the goal of achieving a remission with the need for the patient to maintain or improve quality of life. Recently approved agents, such as blinatumomab and vincristine sulfate liposome injection, offer the promise of a second remission that can serve as a bridge to allogeneic stem cell transplant while still maintaining quality of life. A novel approach using adoptive cellular immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells is associated with extremely robust responses."

"1207. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2015 Jun;10(2):65-75. doi: 10.1007/s11899-015-0250-9.","Update on antigen-specific immunotherapy of acute myeloid leukemia.","Among the few drugs that have shown a benefit for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in randomized clinical trials over the last several decades is the CD33 antibody-drug conjugate, gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO). Undoubtedly, this experience has highlighted the value of antigen-specific immunotherapy in AML. A  wide variety of therapeutics directed against several different antigens on AML cells are currently explored in preclinical and early clinical studies. On the one hand, these include passive strategies such as unconjugated antibodies targeting one or more antigens, antibodies armed with drugs, toxic proteins, or radionuclides, or adoptive immunotherapies, in particular utilizing T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) or modified T cell receptor (TCR) genes; on the other hand, these include active strategies such as  vaccinations. With the documented benefit for GO and the emerging data with several classes of therapeutics in other leukemias, in particular small bispecific antibodies and CAR T cells, the future is bright. Nevertheless, a number of important questions related to the choice of target antigen(s), patient population, exact treatment modality, and supportive care needs remain open. Addressing such questions in upcoming studies will ultimately be required to optimize the clinical use of antigen-specific immunotherapies in AML and ensure that such treatments become an effective, versatile tool for this disease for which the outcomes have remained unsatisfactory in many patients."

"1208. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Jun;15(6):857-72. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1036735. Epub 2015 Apr 12.","Allogeneic stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma: immunotherapy and new drugs.","INTRODUCTION: Autologous (auto) stem cell transplantation (SCT) and the development of new drugs have improved the survival of multiple myeloma (MM) patients. By contrast, though potentially curative, the use of allogeneic (allo)-SCT is controversial. AREAS COVERED: A review has been conducted to examine the current evidence for the use of allo-SCT in MM. We have examined novel cell therapies that may be exploited to induce myeloma-specific immune responses including the new promising frontier of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T and -natural killer (NK) cells. EXPERT OPINION: One of the major controversies facing researchers in exploring the allo approach is the remarkable recent treatment improvement observed with second- and third-generation proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs, monoclonal antibodies and deacetylase inhibitors. Despite these great advances, the disease remains to be incurable and allo-SCT may still play a role in the cure of MM. We think that allo-SCT conserves a role in MM and its curative potential in high-risk patients should be explored in the setting of control clinical trials. Novel cell therapies such as CAR technologies may open new avenues of research toward a potential cure. Data from currently ongoing prospective studies will be helpful to clarify pending clinical questions."

"1211. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Jun 1;4(12):e1053684. eCollection 2015 Dec.","CAR-T cells are serial killers.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have enjoyed unprecedented clinical success against haematological malignancies in recent years. However, several aspects of CAR T cell biology remain unknown. We recently compared CAR and T cell receptor (TCR)-based killing in the same effector cell and showed that CAR T cells can not only efficiently kill single tumor targets, they can also kill multiple tumor targets in a sequential manner. Single and serial killing events were not sustained long term due to CAR down-regulation after 20 hours."

"1212. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Jun 1;4(12):e1048956. eCollection 2015 Dec.","Designing CAR T cells for glioblastoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells directed against CD19 can mediate long-term durable remissions in B cell malignancies, but bringing a new target antigen to the clinic requires extensive modeling to avoid on-target and off-target toxicity. We recently described a systematic approach to test a new CAR directed against EGFR variant III."

"1213. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 1;10(6):e0128151. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0128151. eCollection 2015.","Sleeping Beauty Transposition of Chimeric Antigen Receptors Targeting Receptor Tyrosine Kinase-Like Orphan Receptor-1 (ROR1) into Diverse Memory T-Cell Populations.","T cells modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 demonstrated clinical activity against some B-cell malignancies. However, this is often accompanied by a loss of normal CD19+ B cells and humoral immunity. Receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor-1 (ROR1) is expressed on sub-populations of B-cell malignancies and solid tumors, but not by healthy B cells or normal post-partum tissues. Thus, adoptive transfer of T cells specific  for ROR1 has potential to eliminate tumor cells and spare healthy tissues. To test this hypothesis, we developed CARs targeting ROR1 in order to generate T cells specific for malignant cells. Two Sleeping Beauty transposons were constructed with 2nd generation ROR1-specific CARs signaling through CD3ζ and either CD28 (designated ROR1RCD28) or CD137 (designated ROR1RCD137) and were introduced into T cells. We selected for T cells expressing CAR through co-culture with γ-irradiated activating and propagating cells (AaPC), which co-expressed ROR1 and co-stimulatory molecules. Numeric expansion over one month  of co-culture on AaPC in presence of soluble interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-21 occurred and resulted in a diverse memory phenotype of CAR+ T cells as measured by non-enzymatic digital array (NanoString) and multi-panel flow cytometry. Such  T cells produced interferon-γ and had specific cytotoxic activity against ROR1+ tumors. Moreover, such cells could eliminate ROR1+ tumor xenografts, especially T cells expressing ROR1RCD137. Clinical trials will investigate the ability of ROR1-specific CAR+ T cells to specifically eliminate tumor cells while maintaining normal B-cell repertoire."

"1214. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Jun;36(6):497-500. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-2727.2015.06.011.","[Cytotoxity of pomalidomide combined CAR-T cell for multiple myeloma cell RPMI8226 and U266].","OBJECTIVE: To observe the cytotoxity of CD138-CAR-T cells on human multiple myeloma cell RPMI8226 and U266 cells and explore the impact of pomalidomide on the cytotoxity of CD138-CAR-T on RPMI8226 and U266 cells. METHODS: The cytotoxity of CD138-CAR-T and CD138-CAR-T combined pomalidomide on RPMI8226 and U266 was detected by CFSE/7AAD. The effctor cells were co-cultured with target cells at 5:1 for 18 h, and then the supernatant were collected and used for ELISA assays. RESULTS: After 18 h co-culture, the cytotoxity of CD138-CAR-T on RPMI8226 and U266 was significantiy higher than control (P<0.01). There was no significant change on the cytotoxity of pomalidoide combined with CD138-CAR-T on RPMI8226 and U266. The results showed that co-cultured system contribted to a markedly increased production of IFN-γ, after adding pomalidomide to the co-cultured system. It can significantly enhance the production of IFN-γ, compared with CD138-CAR-T alone. CONCLUSION: CD138-CAR-T had significantly cytotoxity on U266 and RPMI8226. Pomalidomide could promote CD138-CAR-T cells IFN-γ production."

"1215. Blood. 2015 May 28;125(22):3466-76. doi: 10.1182/blood-2014-11-612721. Epub 2015  Apr 17.","Targeting of folate receptor β on acute myeloid leukemia blasts with chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cells.","T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) can produce dramatic results in lymphocytic leukemia patients; however, therapeutic strategies for myeloid leukemia remain limited. Folate receptor β (FRβ) is a myeloid-lineage antigen expressed on 70% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patient samples. Here, we describe the development and evaluation of the first CARs specific for human FRβ  (m909) in vitro and in vivo. m909 CAR T cells exhibited selective activation and  lytic function against engineered C30-FRβ as well as endogenous FRβ(+) AML cell lines in vitro. In mouse models of human AML, m909 CAR T cells mediated the regression of engrafted FRβ(+) THP1 AML in vivo. In addition, we demonstrated that treatment of AML with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) enhanced FRβ expression, resulting in improved immune recognition by m909 CAR T cells. Because many cell surface markers are shared between AML blasts and healthy hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSCs), we evaluated FRβ expression and recognition of  HSCs by CAR T cells. m909 CAR T cells were not toxic against healthy human CD34(+) HSCs in vitro. Our results indicate that FRβ is a promising target for CAR T-cell therapy of AML, which may be augmented by combination with ATRA."

"1216. Oncoimmunology. 2015 May 26;4(11):e1047582. eCollection 2015 Nov.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting HERV-K inhibit breast cancer and its  metastasis through downregulation of Ras.","We have previously reported that human endogenous retrovirus-K (HERV-K) envelope  (env) protein is a tumor-associated antigen (TAA) for cancer vaccines, and that its antibodies (mAbs) possess antitumor activity against cancer. In this study, a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) specific for HERV-K env protein (K-CAR) was generated using anti-HERV-K mAb. K-CAR T cells from peripheral blood mononuclear  cells (PBMCs) of 9 breast cancer (BC) patients and 12 normal donors were able to  inhibit growth of, and to exhibit significant cytotoxicity toward, BC cells but not MCF-10A normal breast cells. The antitumor effects in cancer cells were significantly reduced when control T cells were used, or the expression of HERV-K was knocked down by an shRNA. Secretion of multiple cytokines, including IFNγ, TNF-α, and IL-2, was significantly enhanced in culture media of BC cells treated  with K-CARs. Significantly reduced tumor growth and tumor weight was observed in  xenograft models bearing MDA-MB-231 or MDA-MB-435.eB1 BC cells. Importantly, the  K-CAR prevented tumor metastasis to other organs. Furthermore, downregulation of  HERV-K expression in tumors of mice treated with K-CAR correlated with upregulation of p53 and downregulation of MDM2 and p-ERK. Importantly, the expression of HERV-K env protein in metastatic tumor tissues treated with K-CAR T cells correlated with the expression of Ras. Our results indicate that HERV-K env protein is an oncoprotein and may play an important role in tumorigenesis related to p53 and Ras signaling pathways. Anti-HERV-K treatment, including K-CAR treatment, shows potential for immunotherapy of BC."

"1218. J Transl Med. 2015 May 20;13:161. doi: 10.1186/s12967-015-0519-8.","Identification and selective expansion of functionally superior T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors.","BACKGROUND: T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have shown exciting promise in cancer therapy, particularly in the treatment of B-cell malignancies. However, optimization of CAR-T cell production remains a trial-and-error exercise due to a lack of phenotypic benchmarks that are clearly  predictive of anti-tumor functionality. A close examination of the dynamic changes experienced by CAR-T cells upon stimulation can improve understanding of  CAR-T-cell biology and identify potential points for optimization in the production of highly functional T cells. METHODS: Primary human T cells expressing a second-generation, anti-CD19 CAR were systematically examined for changes in phenotypic and functional responses to antigen exposure over time. Multi-color flow cytometry was performed to quantify  dynamic changes in CAR-T cell viability, proliferation, as well as expression of  various activation and exhaustion markers in response to varied antigen stimulation conditions. RESULTS: Stimulated CAR-T cells consistently bifurcate into two distinct subpopulations, only one of which (CAR(hi)/CD25(+)) exhibit anti-tumor functions. The use of central memory T cells as the starting population and the resilience-but not antigen density-of antigen-presenting cells used to expand CAR-T cells were identified as critical parameters that augment the production of functionally superior T cells. We further demonstrate that the CAR(hi)/CD25(+) subpopulation upregulates PD-1 but is resistant to PD-L1-induced dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS: CAR-T cells expanded ex vivo for adoptive T-cell therapy undergo dynamic phenotypic changes during the expansion process and result in two distinct populations with dramatically different functional capacities. Significant and sustained CD25 and CAR expression upregulation is predictive of robust anti-tumor functionality in antigen-stimulated T cells, despite their correlation with persistent PD-1 upregulation. The functionally superior subpopulation can be selectively augmented by careful calibration of antigen stimulation and the enrichment of central memory T-cell type."

"1219. Oncoscience. 2015 May 15;2(5):476-82. eCollection 2015.","Rapid and efficient transfer of the T cell aging marker CD57 from glioblastoma stem cells to CAR T cells.","Adoptive transfer of T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) holds great promise for cancer treatment. We recently developed CAR T cells targeting the prototypic cancer stem cell marker AC133 and showed that these CAR T cells killed AC133+ glioblastoma stem cells (GBM-SCs) in vitro and inhibited the growth of brain tumors initiated from GBM-SCs in xenograft mouse models in vivo . Upon coincubation with GBM-SCs, we observed strong upregulation of the T cell aging marker CD57, but other phenotypical or functional changes usually associated with terminal T cell differentiation could not immediately be detected. Here, we provide evidence suggesting that CD57 is rapidly and efficiently transferred from CD57+ GBM-SCs to preactivated T cells and that the transfer is greatly enhanced by specific CAR/ligand interaction. After separation from CD57+ tumor cells, CD57 epitope expression on T cells decreased only slowly over several days. We conclude that CD57 transfer from tumor cells to T cells may occur in patients with CD57+ tumors and that it may have to be considered in the interpretation of  phenotyping results for tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and perhaps also in the characterization of tumor-specific T cells from tumor or lymph node homogenates or peripheral blood mononuclear cells."

"1220. Br J Haematol. 2015 May;169(4):463-78. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13340. Epub 2015 Mar 5.","CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy for haematological malignancies.","T cells can be redirected to recognize tumour antigens by genetic modification to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). These consist of antibody-derived antigen-binding regions linked to T cell signalling elements. CD19 is an ideal target because it is expressed on most B cell malignancies as well as normal B cells but not on other cell types, restricting any on target, off tumour toxicity to B cell depletion. Recent clinical studies involving CD19 CAR-directed T cells have shown unprecedented responses in a range of B cell malignancies, even in patients with chemorefractory relapse. Durable responses have been achieved, although the persistence of modified T cells may be limited. This therapy is not without toxicity, however. Cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity appear to be frequent but are treatable and reversible. CAR T cell  therapy holds the promise of a tailored cellular therapy, which can form memory and be adapted to the tumour microenvironment. This review will provide a perspective on the currently available data, as well as on future developments in the field."

"1223. Gene Ther. 2015 May;22(5):391-403. doi: 10.1038/gt.2015.4. Epub 2015 Feb 5.","Inclusion of an IgG1-Fc spacer abrogates efficacy of CD19 CAR T cells in a xenograft mouse model.","Cancer therapy with T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has produced remarkable clinical responses in recent trials, but also severe side effects. Whereas most protocols use permanently reprogrammed T cells, we have developed a platform for transient CAR expression by mRNA electroporation. This approach may be useful for safe clinical testing of novel receptors, or when a temporary treatment period is desirable. Herein, we investigated therapy with transiently redirected T cells in vitro and in a xenograft mouse model. We constructed a series of CD19-specific CARs with different spacers and co-stimulatory domains (CD28, OX40 or CD28-OX40). The CAR constructs all conferred T cells with potent CD19-specific activity in vitro. Unexpectedly, the  constructs incorporating a commonly used IgG1-CH2CH3 spacer showed lack of anti-leukemia activity in vivo and induced severe, partly CD19-independent toxicity. By contrast, identical CAR constructs without the CH2-domain eradicated leukemia in vivo, without notable toxicity. Follow-up studies demonstrated that the CH2CH3-spacer bound soluble mouse Fcγ-receptor I and mediated off-target T-cell activation towards murine macrophages. Our findings highlight the importance of non-signalling CAR elements and of in vivo studies. Finally, the results show that transiently redirected T cells control leukemia in mice and support the rationale for developing an mRNA-CAR platform."

"1224. Nat Med. 2015 May;21(5):524-9. doi: 10.1038/nm.3833. Epub 2015 Apr 13.","Heparanase promotes tumor infiltration and antitumor activity of CAR-redirected T lymphocytes.","Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T lymphocytes (CAR-T cells) has had less striking therapeutic effects in solid tumors than in lymphoid malignancies. Although active tumor-mediated immunosuppression may have  a role in limiting the efficacy of CAR-T cells, functional changes in T lymphocytes after their ex vivo manipulation may also account for the reduced ability of cultured CAR-T cells to penetrate stroma-rich solid tumors compared with lymphoid tissues. We therefore studied the capacity of human in vitro-cultured CAR-T cells to degrade components of the extracellular matrix (ECM). In contrast to freshly isolated T lymphocytes, we found that in vitro-cultured T lymphocytes lack expression of the enzyme heparanase (HPSE), which degrades heparan sulfate proteoglycans, the main components of ECM. We found that HPSE mRNA is downregulated in in vitro-expanded T cells, which may be  a consequence of p53 (officially known as TP53, encoding tumor protein 53) binding to the HPSE gene promoter. We therefore engineered CAR-T cells to express HPSE and showed their improved capacity to degrade the ECM, which promoted tumor  T cell infiltration and antitumor activity. The use of this strategy may enhance  the activity of CAR-T cells in individuals with stroma-rich solid tumors."

"1225. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Apr 30;4(6):e1008339. eCollection 2015 Jun.","Are BiTEs the missing link in cancer therapy?","Conventional treatment for cancer routinely includes surgical resection and some  combination of chemotherapy and radiation. These approaches are frequently accompanied by unintended and highly toxic collateral damage to healthy tissues,  which are offset by only marginal prognostic improvements in patients with advanced cancers. This unfortunate balance has driven the development of novel therapies that aim to target tumors both safely and efficiently. Over the past decade, mounting evidence has supported the therapeutic utility of T-cell-centered cancer immunotherapy, which, in its various iterations, has been  shown capable of eliciting highly precise and robust antitumor responses both in  animal models and human trials. The identification of tumor-specific targets has  further fueled a growing interest in T-cell therapies given their potential to circumvent the non-specific nature of traditional treatments. Of the several strategies geared toward achieving T-cell recognition of tumor, bispecific antibodies (bsAbs) represent a novel class of biologics that have garnered enthusiasm in recent years due to their versatility, specificity, safety, cost, and ease of production. Bispecific T-cell Engagers (BiTEs) are a subclass of bsAbs that are specific for CD3 on one arm and a tumor antigen on the second. As  such, BiTEs function by recruiting and activating polyclonal populations of T-cells at tumor sites, and do so without the need for co-stimulation or conventional MHC recognition. Blinatumomab, a well-characterized BiTE, has emerged as a promising recombinant bscCD19×CD3 construct that has demonstrated remarkable antitumor activity in patients with B-cell malignancies. This clinical success has resulted in the rapid extension of BiTE technology against a greater  repertoire of tumor antigens and the recent US Food and Drug Administrations (FDA) accelerated approval of blinatumomab for the treatment of a rare form of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In this review, we dissect the role of T-cell therapeutics in the new era of cancer immunotherapy, appraise the value of CAR T-cells in the context of solid tumors, and discuss why the BiTE platform may rescue several of the apparent deficits and shortcomings of competing immunotherapies to support its widespread clinical application."

"1226. J Am Chem Soc. 2015 Apr 29;137(16):5288-91. doi: 10.1021/jacs.5b01876. Epub 2015  Apr 15.","An anti-B cell maturation antigen bispecific antibody for multiple myeloma.","The development of immunotherapies for multiple myeloma is critical to provide new treatment strategies to combat drug resistance. We report a bispecific antibody against B cell maturation antigen (BiFab-BCMA), which potently and specifically redirects T cells to lyse malignant multiple myeloma cells. BiFab-BCMA lysed target BCMA-positive cell lines up to 20-fold more potently than a CS1-targeting bispecific antibody (BiFab-CS1) developed in an analogous fashion. Further, BiFab-BCMA robustly activated T cells in vitro and mediated rapid tumor regression in an orthotopic xenograft model of multiple myeloma. The  in vitro and in vivo activities of BiFab-BCMA are comparable to those of anti-BCMA chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy (CAR-T-BCMA), for which two clinical trials have recently been initiated. A BCMA-targeted bispecific antibody presents a promising treatment option for multiple myeloma."

"1227. BioDrugs. 2015 Apr;29(2):75-89. doi: 10.1007/s40259-015-0122-9.","Chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer.","Cancer immunotherapy was selected as the Breakthrough of the Year 2013 by the editors of Science, in part because of the successful treatment of refractory hematological malignancies with adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells. Effective treatment of B cell leukemia may pave the road to future treatment of solid tumors, using similar approaches. The prostate  expresses many unique proteins and, since the prostate gland is a dispensable organ, CAR T cells can potentially be used to target these tissue-specific antigens. However, the location and composition of prostate cancer metastases complicate the task of treating these tumors. It is therefore likely that more sophisticated CAR T cell approaches are going to be required for prostate metastasis than for B cell malignancies. Two main challenges that need to be resolved are how to increase the migration and infiltration of CAR T cells into prostate cancer bone metastases and how to counteract the immunosuppressive microenvironment found in bone lesions. Inclusion of homing (chemokine) receptors in CAR T cells may improve their recruitment to bone metastases, as may antibody-based combination therapies to normalize the tumor vasculature. Optimal  activation of CAR T cells through the introduction of multiple costimulatory domains would help to overcome inhibitory signals from the tumor microenvironment. Likewise, combination therapy with checkpoint inhibitors that can reduce tumor immunosuppression may help improve efficacy. Other elegant approaches such as induced expression of immune stimulatory cytokines upon target recognition may also help to recruit other effector immune cells to metastatic sites. Although toxicities are difficult to predict in prostate cancer, severe on-target/off-tumor toxicities have been observed in clinical trials with use of  CAR T cells against hematological malignancies; therefore, the choice of the target antigen is going to be crucial. This review focuses on different means of  accomplishing maximal effectiveness of CAR T cell therapy for prostate cancer bone metastases while minimizing side effects and CAR T cell-associated toxicities. CAR T cell-based therapies for prostate cancer have the potential to  be a therapy model for other solid tumors."

"1228. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2015 Apr;64(4):409-18. doi: 10.1007/s00262-014-1648-2. Epub 2014 Dec 31.","DNAM-1-based chimeric antigen receptors enhance T cell effector function and exhibit in vivo efficacy against melanoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies hold great potential for treating cancers, and new CARs that can target multiple tumor types and have the  potential to target non-hematological malignancies are needed. In this study, the tumor recognition ability of a natural killer cell-activating receptor, DNAM-1 was harnessed to design CARs that target multiple tumor types. DNAM-1 ligands, PVR and nectin-2, are expressed on primary human leukemia, myeloma, ovarian cancer, melanoma, neuroblastoma, and Ewing sarcoma. DNAM-1 CARs exhibit high tumor cell cytotoxicity but low IFN-γ secretion in vitro. In contrast to other CAR designs, co-stimulatory domains did not improve the expression and function of DNAM-1 CARs. A DNAM-1/CD3zeta CAR reduced tumor burden in a murine melanoma model in vivo. In conclusion, DNAM-1-based CARs may have the potential to treat PVR and nectin-2 expressing hematological and solid tumors."

"1229. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Apr;3(4):356-67. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0186. Epub 2015 Jan 19.","Identification of chimeric antigen receptors that mediate constitutive or inducible proliferation of T cells.","This study compared second-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) encoding signaling domains composed of CD28, ICOS, and 4-1BB (TNFRSF9). Here, we report that certain CARs endow T cells with the ability to undergo long-term autonomous  proliferation. Transduction of primary human T cells with lentiviral vectors encoding some of the CARs resulted in sustained proliferation for up to 3 months  following a single stimulation through the T-cell receptor (TCR). Sustained numeric expansion was independent of cognate antigen and did not require the addition of exogenous cytokines or feeder cells after a single stimulation of the TCR and CD28. Results from gene array and functional assays linked sustained cytokine secretion and expression of T-bet (TBX21), EOMES, and GATA-3 to the effect. Sustained expression of the endogenous IL2 locus has not been reported in primary T cells. Sustained proliferation was dependent on CAR structure and high  expression, the latter of which was necessary but not sufficient. The mechanism involves constitutive signaling through NF-κB, AKT, ERK, and NFAT. The propagated CAR T cells retained a diverse TCR repertoire, and cellular transformation was not observed. The CARs with a constitutive growth phenotype displayed inferior antitumor effects and engraftment in vivo. Therefore, the design of CARs that have a nonconstitutive growth phenotype may be a strategy to improve efficacy and engraftment of CAR T cells. The identification of CARs that confer constitutive or nonconstitutive growth patterns may explain observations that CAR T cells have differential survival patterns in clinical trials."

"1230. Curr Opin Immunol. 2015 Apr;33:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2015.01.002. Epub 2015 Jan 23.","Designing chimeric antigen receptors to effectively and safely target tumors.","The adoptive transfer of T cells engineered to express artificial chimeric antigen receptors CARs) that target a tumor cell surface molecule has emerged as  an exciting new approach for cancer immunotherapy. Clinical trials in patients with advanced B cell malignancies treated with CD19-specific CAR-modified T cells (CAR-T) have shown impressive antitumor efficacy, leading to optimism that this approach will be useful for treating common solid tumors. Because CAR-T cells recognize tumor cells independent of their expression of human leukocyte antigen  (HLA) molecules, tumors that escape conventional T cells by downregulating HLA and/or mutating components of the antigen processing machinery can be eliminated. The ability to introduce or delete additional genes in T cells has the potential  to provide therapeutic cell products with novel attributes that overcome impediments to immune mediated tumor elimination in immunosuppressive tumor microenvironments. This review will discuss recent concepts in the development of effective and safe synthetic CARs for adoptive T cell therapy (ACT)."

"1231. Cytotherapy. 2015 Apr;17(4):487-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2014.12.002. Epub 2015 Jan 6.","Different cytokine and stimulation conditions influence the expansion and immune  phenotype of third-generation chimeric antigen receptor T cells specific for tumor antigen GD2.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are a novel immunotherapy for cancer. To achieve anti-tumor efficacy, these cells must survive, expand, and persist after infusion into patients, functions that are reportedly best achieved by cells with a stem or central-memory rather than effector-memory phenotype. We have developed third-generation CAR T cells specific for the tumor-associated antigen GD2 for use in a phase I clinical trial. We investigated the optimal cell culture conditions for CAR T-cell production, and here we describe the relative effects of 3 activation and cytokine conditions on CAR T-cell expansion, effector function and phenotype. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were activated by anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 or anti-CD3 and Retronectin. Activated cells were transduced with the CAR-encoding retroviral vector and expanded in either interleukin (IL)-2 or IL-7  and IL-15. Immune phenotype and expansion were tracked throughout the culture, and transduction efficiency, and subsequent GD2-specific effector functions were  evaluated by flow cytometry and cytotoxic T lymphocytes assay. RESULTS: CD3/Retronectin stimulation with IL-2 resulted in poorer activation, expansion and Th1 cytokine secretion of CAR T cells than CD3/CD28 stimulation with either IL-2 or IL-7 and IL-15. However, CAR T cells cultured in CD3/CD28/IL7/IL-15 and CD3/Retronectin/IL-2 had superior cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity and a more stem-like phenotype. DISCUSSION: The combination of CD3 and CD28 with IL-7 and IL-15 gave the best balance of CAR T-cell expansion and potent GD2-specific effector functions while  retaining a stem/memory phenotype, and these growth conditions will therefore be  used to manufacture CAR T cells for our phase I clinical trial."

"1232. Mol Ther. 2015 Apr;23(4):769-78. doi: 10.1038/mt.2015.4. Epub 2015 Jan 13.","Enhancing antitumor efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells through constitutive CD40L expression.","Adoptive cell therapy with genetically modified T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a promising therapy for patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, CAR-modified T cells (CAR T cells) have mostly failed in patients with solid tumors or low-grade B-cell malignancies including chronic lymphocytic leukemia with bulky lymph node involvement. Herein, we enhance the antitumor efficacy of CAR T cells through the constitutive expression of CD40 ligand (CD40L, CD154). T cells genetically modified to constitutively express CD40L (CD40L-modified T cells) demonstrated increased proliferation and secretion of proinflammatory TH1 cytokines. Further, CD40L-modified T cells augmented the immunogenicity of CD40(+) tumor cells by the upregulated surface expression of costimulatory molecules (CD80 and CD86), adhesion molecules (CD54,  CD58, and CD70), human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules (Class I and HLA-DR), and the Fas-death receptor (CD95). Additionally, CD40L-modified T cells induced maturation and secretion of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-12 by monocyte-derived dendritic cells. Finally, tumor-targeted CD19-specific CAR/CD40L T cells exhibited increased cytotoxicity against CD40(+) tumors and extended the  survival of tumor-bearing mice in a xenotransplant model of CD19(+) systemic lymphoma. This preclinical data supports the clinical application of CAR T cells  additionally modified to constitutively express CD40L with anticipated enhanced antitumor efficacy."

"1233. Mol Ther. 2015 Apr;23(4):757-68. doi: 10.1038/mt.2014.208. Epub 2014 Nov 4.","Chimeric antigen receptors with mutated IgG4 Fc spacer avoid fc receptor binding  and improve T cell persistence and antitumor efficacy.","The success of adoptive therapy using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing  T cells partly depends on optimal CAR design. CARs frequently incorporate a spacer/linker region based on the constant region of either IgG1 or IgG4 to connect extracellular ligand-binding with intracellular signaling domains. Here,  we evaluated the potential for the IgG4-Fc linker to result in off-target interactions with Fc gamma receptors (FcγRs). As proof-of-principle, we focused on a CD19-specific scFv-IgG4-CD28-zeta CAR and found that, in contrast to CAR-negative cells, CAR+ T cells bound soluble FcγRs in vitro and did not engraft in NSG mice. We hypothesized that mutations to avoid FcγR binding would improve CAR+ T cell engraftment and antitumor efficacy. Thus, we generated CD19-specific  CARs with IgG4-Fc spacers that had either been mutated at two sites (L235E; N297Q) within the CH2 region (CD19R(EQ)) or incorporated a CH2 deletion (CD19Rch2Δ). These mutations reduced binding to soluble FcγRs without altering the ability of the CAR to mediate antigen-specific lysis. Importantly, CD19R(EQ)  and CD19Rch2Δ T cells exhibited improved persistence and more potent CD19-specific antilymphoma efficacy in NSG mice. Together, these studies suggest  that optimal CAR function may require the elimination of cellular FcγR interactions to improve T cell persistence and antitumor responses."

"1234. Ther Adv Hematol. 2015 Apr;6(2):61-79. doi: 10.1177/2040620714565963.","Novel agents for the treatment of childhood acute leukemia.","Together, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) make up approximately one-third of all pediatric cancer diagnoses. Despite remarkable improvement in the treatment outcomes of these diseases over the past  several decades, the prognosis for certain high-risk groups of leukemia and for relapsed disease remains poor. However, recent insights into different types of driver lesions of leukemogenesis, such as the aberrant activation of signaling  pathways and various epigenetic modifications, have led to the discovery of novel agents that specifically target the mechanism of transformation. In parallel, emerging approaches in cancer immunotherapy have led to newer therapies that can  exploit and harness cytotoxic immunity directed against malignant cells. This review details the rationale and implementation of recent and specifically targeted therapies in acute pediatric leukemia. Topics covered include the inhibition of critical cell signaling pathways [BCR-ABL, FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3), mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), and Janus-associated kinase (JAK)], proteasome inhibition, inhibition of epigenetic regulators of gene expression [DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitors, histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, and disruptor of telomeric signaling-1 (DOT1L) inhibitors], monoclonal antibodies and immunoconjugated toxins, bispecific T-cell engaging (BiTE) antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor-modified (CAR) T cells."

"1235. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;23(2):568-72. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2015.02.053.","[Application of Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Modified CAR-T/NK Cells to Treatment of Multiple Myeloma].","Chimeric antigen receptor(CAR) is a synthesized transmembrane protein, which redirects the modified cells through specific or associated antigen on tumor cells. CAR-modified T/NK cells, especially CAR-T cells, are a new tool of rapidly developing of adoptive immunotherapy of tumor in recent years, they give T/NK cells the targeting cytotoxic activity and can overcome the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment and break the state of the host immune tolerance. CAR combines the single-chain antibody to tumor-associated antigen with T/NK cells activated motifs, giving T/NK cells tumor targeting activity, so enhancing their cytotoxic activity and lasting the vitality by gene transduction. In this article the CAR development, comparison of CAR-T and CAR-NK cells, surface markers on MM cells and use of CAR in MM, and CAR perspectives are summarized."

"1236. J Transl Med. 2015 Mar 28;13:102. doi: 10.1186/s12967-015-0460-x.","A phase I clinical trial of adoptive T cell therapy using IL-12 secreting MUC-16(ecto) directed chimeric antigen receptors for recurrent ovarian cancer.","PURPOSE: Recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer has no curative options, necessitating the development of novel treatments, including immunotherapy. RATIONALE: Patient-derived T cells can be genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) specific to tumor-associated antigens in an HLA-independent manner, with promising preclinical results. MUC16(ecto) is highly expressed on most epithelial ovarian carcinomas but at low levels on normal tissues, offering an excellent immunotherapeutic target for this cancer. CAR T cells further modified to secrete IL-12 show enhanced cytotoxicity, persistence,  and modulation of the tumor microenvironment. DESIGN: We propose a dose escalation phase I clinical trial for patients with recurrent MUC-16(ecto+) ovarian cancer to test the safety of intravenous and intraperitoneal administration and the preliminary efficacy of autologous IL-12 secreting, MUC-16(ecto) CAR T cells containing a safety elimination gene. INNOVATION: This trial targets MUC-16(ecto), a novel and promising tumor-associated antigen. This will be the first time CAR T cells are injected intraperitoneally directly into the site of the tumor within the abdomen in humans. Furthermore, the ability of genetically modified cells to secrete IL-12 will potentially enhance CAR T cell persistence and modulate the tumor microenvironment. For safety purposes, an elimination gene has been incorporated  into the CAR T cells to mitigate any on-target, off-tumor or other unforeseen toxicity."

"1237. J Am Chem Soc. 2015 Mar 4;137(8):2832-5. doi: 10.1021/jacs.5b00106. Epub 2015 Feb 24.","Redirection of genetically engineered CAR-T cells using bifunctional small molecules.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells (CAR-Ts) provide a potent antitumor response and have become a promising treatment option for cancer. However, despite their efficacy, CAR-T cells are associated with significant safety challenges related to the inability to control their activation and expansion and terminate their response. Herein, we demonstrate that a bifunctional small molecule switch consisting of folate conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate (folate-FITC) can redirect and regulate FITC-specific  CAR-T cell activity toward folate receptor (FR)-overexpressing tumor cells. This  system was shown to be highly cytotoxic to FR-positive cells with no activity against FR-negative cells, demonstrating the specificity of redirection by folate-FITC. Anti-FITC-CAR-T cell activation and proliferation was strictly dependent on the presence of both folate-FITC and FR-positive cells and was dose  titratable with folate-FITC switch. This novel treatment paradigm may ultimately  lead to increased safety for CAR-T cell immunotherapy."

"1238. Cancer Gene Ther. 2015 Mar;22(2):79-84. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2015.5. Epub 2015 Feb 13.","Performance-enhancing drugs: design and production of redirected chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells.","Performance enhancement of the immune system can now be generated through ex vivo gene modification of T cells in order to redirect native specificity to target tumor antigens. This approach combines the specificity of antibody therapy, the expanded response of cellular therapy and the memory activity of vaccine therapy. Recent clinical trials of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells directed toward CD19 as a stand-alone therapy have shown sustained complete responses in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. As these drug products are individually derived from a patients own cells, a different manufacturing approach is required for this kind of personalized therapy compared with conventional drugs. Key steps in the CAR T-cell manufacturing process include the selection and activation of isolated T cells, transduction of T cells to express CARs, ex vivo expansion of modified T cells and cryopreservation in infusible media. In this review, the steps involved in isolating, genetically modifying and scaling-out the CAR T cells for use in a clinical setting are described in the context of in-process and release testing and regulatory standards."

"1239. Cancer Gene Ther. 2015 Mar;22(2):95-100. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2014.69. Epub 2015 Jan  16.","Manufacture of T cells using the Sleeping Beauty system to enforce expression of  a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor.","T cells can be reprogrammed to redirect specificity to tumor-associated antigens  (TAAs) through the enforced expression of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). The  prototypical CAR is a single-chain molecule that docks with TAA expressed on the  cell surface and, in contrast to the T-cell receptor complex, recognizes target cells independent of human leukocyte antigen. The bioprocessing to generate CAR(+) T cells has been reduced to clinical practice based on two common steps that are accomplished in compliance with current good manufacturing practice. These are (1) gene transfer to stably integrate the CAR using viral and nonviral  approaches and (2) activating the T cells for proliferation by crosslinking CD3 or antigen-driven numeric expansion using activating and propagating cells (AaPCs). Here, we outline our approach to nonviral gene transfer using the Sleeping Beauty system and the selective propagation of CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells on AaPCs."

"1240. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Mar;15(3):403-16. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1014792. Epub 2015 Feb 9.","Using gene therapy to manipulate the immune system in the fight against B-cell leukemias.","INTRODUCTION: Over 20 years ago, chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) were created to endow T cells with new antigen-specificity and create a therapy that could eradicate cancer and provide life-long protection against recurrence. Steady progress has led to significant improvements with CAR design and CAR T-cell production, allowing evaluation of CAR T cells in patients. The initial trials have targeted CD19, which is expressed on normal and malignant B cells. AREAS COVERED: We review data from trials for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). In addition, we discuss the on-target toxicities, B-cell aplasia and cytokine release syndrome (CRS), which is uniquely associated with T-cell immunotherapies. EXPERT OPINION: We compare the results when targeting the same antigen in CLL or  B-ALL and speculate on reasons for outcome differences and future directions to enhance outcomes. Furthermore, the dramatic results targeting B-ALL require further analysis in Phase II trials, and we discuss important components of these future trials. We also suggest a management scheme for CRS. The next several years will be critical and may lead to the first clinical indication of a gene-engineered cell therapy for cancer."

"1243. J Vis Exp. 2015 Feb 16;(96). doi: 10.3791/52397.","Generation of CAR T cells for adoptive therapy in the context of glioblastoma standard of care.","Adoptive T cell immunotherapy offers a promising strategy for specifically targeting and eliminating malignant gliomas. T cells can be engineered ex vivo to express chimeric antigen receptors specific for glioma antigens (CAR T cells). The expansion and function of adoptively transferred CAR T cells can be potentiated by the lymphodepletive and tumoricidal effects of standard of care chemotherapy and radiotherapy. We describe a method for generating CAR T cells targeting EGFRvIII, a glioma-specific antigen, and evaluating their efficacy when combined with a murine model of glioblastoma standard of care. T cells are engineered by transduction with a retroviral vector containing the anti-EGFRvIII  CAR gene. Tumor-bearing animals are subjected to host conditioning by a course of temozolomide and whole brain irradiation at dose regimens designed to model clinical standard of care. CAR T cells are then delivered intravenously to primed hosts. This method can be used to evaluate the antitumor efficacy of CAR T cells  in the context of standard of care."

"1245. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Feb;3(2):206-16. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0163. Epub 2014 Oct 29.","Safety of targeting ROR1 in primates with chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","Genetic engineering of T cells for adoptive transfer by introducing a tumor-targeting chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is a new approach to cancer immunotherapy. A challenge for the field is to define cell surface molecules that are both preferentially expressed on tumor cells and can be safely targeted with  T cells. The orphan tyrosine kinase receptor ROR1 is a candidate target for T-cell therapy with CAR-modified T cells (CAR-T cells) because it is expressed on the surface of many lymphatic and epithelial malignancies and has a putative role in tumor cell survival. The cell surface isoform of ROR1 is expressed in embryogenesis but absent in adult tissues except for B-cell precursors and low levels of transcripts in adipocytes, pancreas, and lung. ROR1 is highly conserved between humans and macaques and has a similar pattern of tissue expression. To determine if low-level ROR1 expression on normal cells would result in toxicity or adversely affect CAR-T cell survival and/or function, we adoptively transferred autologous ROR1 CAR-T cells into nonhuman primates. ROR1 CAR-T cells  did not cause overt toxicity to normal organs and accumulated in bone marrow and  lymph node sites, where ROR1-positive B cells were present. The findings support  the clinical evaluation of ROR1 CAR-T cells for ROR1(+) malignancies and demonstrate the utility of nonhuman primates for evaluating the safety of immunotherapy with engineered T cells specific for tumor-associated molecules that are homologous between humans and nonhuman primates."

"1246. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Feb;3(2):125-35. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0127. Epub 2014 Sep 11.","The nonsignaling extracellular spacer domain of chimeric antigen receptors is decisive for in vivo antitumor activity.","The use of synthetic chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) to redirect T cells to recognize tumor provides a powerful new approach to cancer immunotherapy; however, the attributes of CARs that ensure optimal in vivo tumor recognition remain to be defined. Here, we analyze the influence of length and composition of IgG-derived extracellular spacer domains on the function of CARs. Our studies demonstrate that CD19-CARs with a long spacer from IgG4 hinge-CH2-CH3 are functional in vitro but lack antitumor activity in vivo due to interaction between the Fc domain within the spacer and the Fc receptor-bearing myeloid cells, leading to activation-induced T-cell death. We demonstrate that in vivo persistence and antitumor effects of CAR-T cells with a long spacer can be restored by modifying distinct regions in the CH2 domain that are essential for Fc receptor binding. Our studies demonstrate that modifications that abrogate binding to Fc receptors are crucial for CARs in which a long spacer is obligatory for tumor recognition as shown here for a ROR1-specific CAR. These results demonstrate that the length and composition of the extracellular spacer domain that lacks intrinsic signaling function can be decisive in the design of CARs for optimal in vivo activity."

"1247. J Immunol. 2015 Feb 1;194(3):911-20. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1402346. Epub 2014 Dec 17.","Target antigen density governs the efficacy of anti-CD20-CD28-CD3 ζ chimeric antigen receptor-modified effector CD8+ T cells.","The effectiveness of chimeric Ag receptor (CAR)-transduced T (CAR-T) cells has been attributed to supraphysiological signaling through CARs. Second- and later-generation CARs simultaneously transmit costimulatory signals with CD3ζ signals upon ligation, but may lead to severe adverse effects owing to the recognition of minimal Ag expression outside the target tumor. Currently, the threshold target Ag density for CAR-T cell lysis and further activation, including cytokine production, has not yet been investigated in detail. Therefore, we determined the threshold target Ag density required to induce CAR-T cell responses using novel anti-CD20 CAR-T cells with a CD28 intracellular domain and a CD20-transduced CEM cell model. The newly developed CD20CAR-T cells demonstrated Ag-specific lysis and cytokine secretion, which was a reasonable level as a second-generation CAR. For lytic activity, the threshold Ag density was determined to be ∼200 molecules per target cell, whereas the Ag density required for cytokine production of CAR-T cells was ∼10-fold higher, at a few thousand per target cell. CD20CAR-T cells responded efficiently to CD20-downregulated lymphoma and leukemia targets, including rituximab- or ofatumumab-refractory primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. Despite the potential influence of the structure, localization, and binding affinity of the CAR/Ag, the threshold determined may be used for target Ag selection. An Ag density below the threshold may not result in adverse effects, whereas that above the threshold may be sufficient for practical effectiveness. CD20CAR-T cells also demonstrated significant lytic activity against CD20-downregulated tumor cells and may exhibit effectiveness for CD20-positive lymphoid malignancies."

"1248. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Jan 23;4(3):e994446. eCollection 2015 Mar.","IL-12 secreting tumor-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T cells eradicate ovarian tumors in vivo.","A novel approach for the treatment of ovarian cancer includes immunotherapy with  genetically engineered T cells targeted to ovarian cancer cell antigens. Using retroviral transduction, T cells can be created that express an artificial T cell receptor (TCR) termed a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). We have generated a CAR, 4H11-28z, specific to MUC-16ecto antigen, which is the over-expressed on a majority of ovarian tumor cells and is the retained portion of MUC-16 after cleavage of CA-125. We previously demonstrated that T cells modified to express the 4H11-28z CAR eradicate orthotopic human ovarian cancer xenografts in SCID-Beige mice. However, despite the ability of CAR T cells to localize to tumors, their activation in the clinical setting can be inhibited by the tumor microenvironment, as is commonly seen for endogenous antitumor immune response. To potentially overcome this limitation, we have recently developed a construct that co-expresses both MUC16ecto CAR and IL-12 (4H11-28z/IL-12). In vitro, 4H11-28z/IL-12 CAR T cells show enhanced proliferation and robust IFNγ secretion  compared to 4H11-28z CAR T cells. In SCID-Beige mice with human ovarian cancer xenografts, IL-12 secreting CAR T cells exhibit enhanced antitumor efficacy as determined by increased survival, prolonged persistence of T cells, and higher systemic IFNγ. Furthermore, in anticipation of translating these results into a phase I clinical trial which will be the first to study IL-12 secreting CAR T cells in ovarian cancer, an elimination gene has been included to allow for deletion of CAR T cells in the context of unforeseen or off-tumor on-target toxicity."

"1249. Adv Cancer Res. 2015;128:1-68. doi: 10.1016/bs.acr.2015.04.010. Epub 2015 Jun 9.","The New Era of Cancer Immunotherapy: Manipulating T-Cell Activity to Overcome Malignancy.","Using the immune system to control cancer has been investigated for over a century. Yet it is only over the last several years that therapeutic agents acting directly on the immune system have demonstrated improved overall survival  for cancer patients in phase III clinical trials. Furthermore, it appears that some patients treated with such agents have been cured of metastatic cancer. This has led to increased interest and acceleration in the rate of progress in cancer  immunotherapy. Most of the current immunotherapeutic success in cancer treatment  is based on the use of immune-modulating antibodies targeting critical checkpoints (CTLA-4 and PD-1/PD-L1). Several other immune-modulating molecules targeting inhibitory or stimulatory pathways are being developed. The combined use of these medicines is the subject of intense investigation and holds important promise. Combination regimens include those that incorporate targeted therapies that act on growth signaling pathways, as well as standard chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In fact, these standard therapies have intrinsic immune-modulating properties that can support antitumor immunity. In the years ahead, adoptive T-cell therapy will also be an important part of treatment for some cancer patients. Other areas which are regaining interest are the use of oncolytic viruses that immunize patients against their own tumors and the use of  vaccines against tumor antigens. Immunotherapy has demonstrated unprecedented durability in controlling multiple types of cancer and we expect its use to continue expanding rapidly."

"1252. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Jan;3(1):68-84. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0192. Epub 2014 Oct 30.","T cells bearing a chimeric antigen receptor against prostate-specific membrane antigen mediate vascular disruption and result in tumor regression.","Aberrant blood vessels enable tumor growth, provide a barrier to immune infiltration, and serve as a source of protumorigenic signals. Targeting tumor blood vessels for destruction, or tumor vascular disruption therapy, can therefore provide significant therapeutic benefit. Here, we describe the ability  of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-bearing T cells to recognize human prostate-specific membrane antigen (hPSMA) on endothelial targets in vitro as well as in vivo. CAR T cells were generated using the anti-PSMA scFv, J591, and the intracellular signaling domains: CD3ζ, CD28, and/or CD137/4-1BB. We found that all anti-hPSMA CAR T cells recognized and eliminated PSMA(+) endothelial targets in vitro, regardless of the signaling domain. T cells bearing the third-generation anti-hPSMA CAR, P28BBζ, were able to recognize and kill primary  human endothelial cells isolated from gynecologic cancers. In addition, the P28BBζ CAR T cells mediated regression of hPSMA-expressing vascular neoplasms in  mice. Finally, in murine models of ovarian cancers populated by murine vessels expressing hPSMA, the P28BBζ CAR T cells were able to ablate PSMA(+) vessels, cause secondary depletion of tumor cells, and reduce tumor burden. Taken together, these results provide a strong rationale for the use of CAR T cells as  agents of tumor vascular disruption, specifically those targeting PSMA. Cancer Immunol Res; 3(1); 68-84. ©2014 AACR."

"1253. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015;15(8):1145-54. doi: 10.1517/14712598.2015.1046430. Epub 2015 May 18.","TRUCKs: the fourth generation of CARs.","INTRODUCTION: Adoptive cell therapy of malignant diseases takes advantage of the  cellular immune system to recognize and destroy cancer cells. This is impressively demonstrated by redirecting T cells with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) towards CD19, inducing complete and lasting remission of leukemia in more than two-thirds of patients in early phase trials. AREAS COVERED: We outline how the CAR strategy is highly specific in redirecting  T cells towards pre-defined target cells, however, reaches its limits when targeting solid tumors with a tremendous phenotypic heterogeneity. After initial  tumor reduction by CAR T cells, antigen-negative cancer cells not recognized by CAR may give rise to tumor relapse. The situation may be overcome by CAR-mediated activation of T cells in the tumor, releasing inducible IL-12 which augments T-cell activation and attracts and activates innate immune cells to eliminate antigen-negative cancer cells in the targeted lesion. EXPERT OPINION: CAR T cells with a transgenic payload, so-called TRUCK T cells  or the fourth-generation CAR T cells, are worthwhile to explore to shape the tumor environment by the inducible release of transgenic immune modifiers. Such TRUCK T cells are moreover envisioned to be applied in fields beyond cancer therapy including the therapy of virus infections, auto-immune diseases or metabolic disorders."

"1254. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015;19(10):1339-50. doi: 10.1517/14728222.2015.1068759. Epub 2015 Jul 18.","Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 as a target for chimeric antigen receptor-based T-cell immunotherapy of solid tumors.","INTRODUCTION: Proteoglycans are critical molecules involved in multiple physiological cell functions, but also key players in cancer development and progression. In particular, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4) is recognized as an attractive target for antibody-based approaches because of its high expression on cancer cells in several types of human malignancies and its restricted distribution in normal tissues. AREAS COVERED: Adoptive transfer of genetically modified T cells is emerging as a powerful therapeutic approach in cancer patients. In this regard, the selection of the appropriate antigen to be targeted in solid tumors becomes a critical aspect in promoting potent antitumor effects while preventing toxicities. This review summarizes the authors current knowledge on the expression and function of CSPG4 in normal tissues and malignant tumors, with a particular focus on the potential use of CSPG4 as a target for antigen-specificity redirected T cells. EXPERT OPINION: T cells expressing a CSPG4-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) offer the possibility to target a broad spectrum of solid tumors for which  no curative treatment is currently available. In addition, since CSPG4 is also selectively up-regulated on tumor-associated pericytes, targeting this antigen may also contribute to tumor regression via inhibition of neoangiogenesis. Preclinical experiments to date justify the clinical translation of CSPG4-specific CAR-T cells."

"1255. Immunol Rev. 2015 Jan;263(1):68-89. doi: 10.1111/imr.12243.","Going viral: chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy for hematological malignancies.","On July 1, 2014, the United States Food and Drug Administration granted breakthrough therapy designation to CTL019, the anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy developed at the University of Pennsylvania. This is the  first personalized cellular therapy for cancer to be so designated and occurred 25 years after the first publication describing genetic redirection of T cells to a surface antigen of choice. The peer-reviewed literature currently contains the  outcomes of more than 100 patients treated on clinical trials of anti-CD19 redirected T cells, and preliminary results on many more patients have been presented. At last count almost 30 clinical trials targeting CD19 were actively recruiting patients in North America, Europe, and Asia. Patients with high-risk B-cell malignancies therefore represent the first beneficiaries of an exciting and potent new treatment modality that harnesses the power of the immune system as never before. A handful of trials are targeting non-CD19 hematological and solid malignancies and represent the vanguard of enormous preclinical efforts to  develop CAR T-cell therapy beyond B-cell malignancies. In this review, we explain the concept of chimeric antigen receptor gene-modified T cells, describe the extant results in hematologic malignancies, and share our outlook on where this modality is likely to head in the near future."

"1256. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(11):1187-99. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.77. Epub 2015 Sep 15.","Targeting B-cell maturation antigen in multiple myeloma.","Novel effective immunotherapies are needed for patients with multiple myeloma (MM), since disease recurrence remains a major obstacle. B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), a cell surface protein universally expressed on malignant plasma  cells , has emerged as a very selective antigen to be targeted in novel treatments for MM. We here first review BCMA-related biology, and then highlight  the recent clinical development of a novel afucosylated anti-BCMA monoclonal antibody conjugated with monomethyl auristatin F via noncleavable linker (GSK2857916). Chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T cells targeting BCMA may also induce specific and durable anti-MM responses by patients own effector cells. Clinical trials testing these two approaches (NCT02064387, NCT02215967) are currently ongoing in relapsed and refractory MM patients."

"1257. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(9):967-980. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.65. Epub 2015 Aug 27.","Strategies for combining immunotherapy with radiation for anticancer therapy.","Radiation therapy controls local disease but also prompts the release of tumor-associated antigens and stress-related danger signals that primes T cells to promote tumor regression at unirradiated sites known as the abscopal effect. This may be enhanced by blocking inhibitory immune signals that modulate immune activity through a variety of mechanisms. Indeed, abscopal responses have occurred in patients with lung cancer or melanoma when given anti-CTLA4 antibody  and radiation. Other approaches involve expanding and reinfusing T or NK cells or engineered T cells to express receptors that target specific tumor peptides. These approaches may be useful for immunocompromised patients receiving radiation. Preclinical and clinical studies are testing both immune checkpoint-based strategies and adoptive immunotherapies with radiation."

"1258. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(5):545-61. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.6.","CAR therapy for hematological cancers: can success seen in the treatment of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia be applied to other hematological malignancies?","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has recently come into the spotlight due to impressive results in patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. By targeting CD19, a marker expressed most B-cell tumors, as well as normal B cells, CAR T-cell therapy has been investigated as a treatment strategy  for B-cell leukemia and lymphoma. This review will discuss the successes of this  therapy for the treatment of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and the challenges to this therapeutic strategy. We will also discuss application of CAR  T-cell therapy to chronic lymphocytic leukemia and other B-cell malignancies including a follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, as well as acute  and plasma cell malignancies."

"1259. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(5):535-44. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.15.","Adoptive therapy with CAR redirected T cells: the challenges in targeting solid tumors.","Recent spectacular success in the adoptive cell therapy of leukemia and lymphoma  with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells raised the expectations that this therapy may be efficacious in a wide range of cancer entities. The expectations are based on the predefined specificity of CAR T cells by an antibody-derived binding domain that acts independently of the natural T-cell receptor, recognizes targets independently of presentation by the major histocompatibility complex and allows targeting toward virtually any cell surface antigen. We here discuss that targeting CAR T cells toward solid tumors faces certain circumstances critical for the therapeutic success. Targeting tumor stroma and taking advantage of TRUCK cells, in other words, CAR T cells with inducible release of a transgenic payload, are some strategies envisaged to overcome current limitations in the near future."

"1260. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(5):513-33. doi: 10.2217/imt.15.23.","Adoptive T-cell therapy: a need for standard immune monitoring.","Cancer immune therapy, in particular the use of checkpoint inhibitors and adoptive transfer of T cells has recently demonstrated significant clinical responses against several tumor types. Unfortunately, these therapies are frequently accompanied by severe toxicities, underscoring the need for markers that provide information on therapy response. Monitoring immune responses in the  tumor microenvironment and peripheral blood prior to and during these therapies will provide better insight into the mechanisms underlying clinical activities, and will potentially enable the identification of such markers. In this review, we present an overview of adoptive T-cell trials conducted with a special focus on immune monitoring, and argue that accurate monitoring of T cells is pivotal to further development of immune therapies to treat cancer."

"1262. Immunotherapy. 2015;7(3):229-41. doi: 10.2217/imt.14.120.","ErbB-targeted CAR T-cell immunotherapy of cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) based immunotherapy has been under development for the last 25 years and is now a promising new treatment modality in the field  of cancer immunotherapy. The approach involves genetically engineering T cells to target malignant cells through expression of a bespoke fusion receptor that couples an HLA-independent antigen recognition domain to one or more intracellular T-cell activating modules. Multiple clinical trials are now underway in several centers to investigate CAR T-cell immunotherapy of diverse hematologic and solid tumor types. The most successful results have been achieved in the treatment of patients with B-cell malignancies, in whom several complete and durable responses have been achieved. This review focuses on the preclinical  and clinical development of CAR T-cell immunotherapy of solid cancers, targeted against members of the ErbB family."

"1263. J Immunother. 2015 Jan;38(1):12-23. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000061.","BRAF and MEK inhibition variably affect GD2-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell function in vitro.","Cancer immunotherapy has long been used in the treatment of metastatic melanoma,  and an anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody treatment has recently been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. Targeted therapies such as small molecule kinase inhibitors targeting deregulated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling have markedly improved melanoma control in up to 50% of metastatic disease patients and have likewise been recently approved. Combination therapies  for melanoma have been proposed as a way to exploit the high-level but short-term responses associated with kinase inhibitor therapies and the low-level but longer-term responses associated with immunotherapy. Cancer immunotherapy now includes adoptive transfer of autologous tumor-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells and this mode of therapy is a candidate for combination with small  molecule drugs. This paper describes CART cells that target GD2-expressing melanoma cells and investigates the effects of approved MAPK pathway-targeted therapies for melanoma [vemurafenib (Vem), dabrafenib (Dab), and trametinib (Tram)] on the viability, activation, proliferation, and cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity of these CAR T cells, as well as on normal peripheral blood mononuclear  cells. We report that, although all these drugs lead to inhibition of stimulated  T cells at high concentrations in vitro, only Vem inhibited T cells at concentrations equivalent to reported plasma concentrations in treated patients.  Although the combination of Dab and Tram also resulted in inhibition of T-cell effector functions at some therapeutic concentrations, Dab itself had little adverse effect on CAR T-cell function. These findings may have implications for novel therapeutic combinations of adoptive CAR T-cell immunotherapy and MAPK pathway inhibitors."

"1264. Leukemia. 2015 Jan;29(1):1-10. doi: 10.1038/leu.2014.189. Epub 2014 Jun 12.","Cell-based strategies to manage leukemia relapse: efficacy and feasibility of immunotherapy approaches.","When treatment fails, the clinical outcome of acute leukemia patients is usually  very poor, particularly when failure occurs after transplantation. A second allogeneic stem cell transplant could be envisaged as an effective and feasible salvage option in younger patients having a late relapse and an available donor.  Unmanipulated or minimally manipulated donor T cells may also be effective in a minority of patients but the main limit remains the induction of severe graft-versus-host disease. This clinical complication has brought about a huge research effort that led to the development of leukemia-specific T-cell therapy aiming at the direct recognition of leukemia-specific rather than minor histocompatibility antigens. Despite a great scientific interest, the clinical feasibility of such an approach has proven to be quite problematic. To overcome this limitation, more research has moved toward the choice of targeting commonly  expressed hematopoietic specific antigens by the genetic modification of unselected T cells. The best example of this is represented by the anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CD19.CAR) T cells. As a possible alternative to the genetic manipulation of unselected T cells, specific T-cell subpopulations with in vivo favorable homing and long-term survival properties have been genetically  modified by CAR molecules. Finally, the use of naturally cytotoxic effector cells such as natural killer and cytokine-induced killer cells has been proposed in several clinical trials. The clinical development of these latter cells could also be further expanded by additional genetic modifications using the CAR technology."

"1265. Methods Mol Biol. 2015;1317:365-82. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-2727-2_21.","Clinical Evaluation of ErbB-Targeted CAR T-Cells, Following Intracavity Delivery  in Patients with ErbB-Expressing Solid Tumors.","Adoptive cell therapy using gene-modified T-cells has achieved impressive results in the treatment of B-cell malignancies. However, the development of similar strategies to treat solid tumors raises challenges with respect to tumor antigen  selection and the achievement of efficient T-cell homing, survival and sustained  effector function within the tumor microenvironment. To address these challenges, we have developed a gene-modified cellular therapy called T4 immunotherapy. To generate T4 immunotherapy, autologous T-cells are engineered by retroviral transduction to co-express two transgenes: (1) a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), T1E28z, targeted against a range of ErbB homodimers and heterodimers and (2) a chimeric cytokine receptor, 4αβ, that allows the selective ex vivo expansion of engineered cells using interleukin-4. Targeting of the extended ErbB network using CAR T-cells is supported by prevalence of ErbB dysregulation in diverse solid tumors and the clinical impact of monoclonal antibody therapy directed against members of this family. However, the key obstacle to effective clinical translation is risk of on-target toxicity owing to the lower level expression of  ErbB family members in many healthy tissues. To de-risk T4 immunotherapy in man,  we are undertaking a trial in patients with locally advanced or recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. In that setting, engineered T-cells are injected directly into the tumor without prior lymphodepletion, an approach that  we believe will minimize risk of toxicity. This chapter outlines how we plan to advance the development of T4 immunotherapy thereafter in Phase II clinical testing. In that setting, regional (intracavitary) approaches will be used to administer this therapy to patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and malignant  pleural mesothelioma."

"1266. Oncol Res Treat. 2015;38(12):683-90. doi: 10.1159/000442170. Epub 2015 Nov 18.","CD19-Targeted CAR T Cells: A New Tool in the Fight against B Cell Malignancies.","Adoptive cell immunotherapy is a novel tool in the fight against cancer. Serving  both effector and memory functions for the immune system, T cells make an obvious candidate for adoptive cell immunotherapy. By modifying native T cells with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), these cells can theoretically be targeted against any extracellular antigen. To date, the best-studied and clinically validated CAR T cells recognize CD19, a cell surface molecule on B cells and B cell malignancies. These CD19-directed T cells have shown clinical utility in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and non-Hodgkins lymphomas, with some patients achieving long-term disease remissions after treatment. This review will briefly summarize the current data supporting the use of adoptively transferred CAR T cells for the treatment of CD19-positive malignancies. Given these exciting results, the Food and Drug Administration has granted a breakthrough designation for several variations of CD19-directed CAR T cells for treatment of adult and pediatric relapsed/refractory ALL."

"1267. Oncotarget. 2015 Jan 1;6(1):171-84.","Patient-derived glioblastoma stem cells are killed by CD133-specific CAR T cells  but induce the T cell aging marker CD57.","The AC133 epitope of CD133 is a cancer stem cell (CSC) marker for many tumor entities, including the highly malignant glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). We have developed an AC133-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and show that AC133-CAR T cells kill AC133+ GBM stem cells (GBM-SCs) both in vitro and in an orthotopic tumor model in vivo. Direct contact with patient-derived GBM-SCs caused rapid upregulation of CD57 on the CAR T cells, a molecule known to mark terminally or near-terminally differentiated T cells. However, other changes associated with terminal T cell differentiation could not be readily detected. CD57 is also expressed on tumor cells of neural crest origin and has been preferentially found on highly aggressive, undifferentiated, multipotent CSC-like cells. We found that CD57 was upregulated on activated T cells only upon contact  with CD57+ patient-derived GBM-SCs, but not with conventional CD57-negative glioma lines. However, CD57 was not downregulated on the GBM-SCs upon their differentiation, indicating that this molecule is not a bona fide CSC marker for  GBM. Differentiated GBM cells still induced CD57 on CAR T cells and other activated T cells. Therefore, CD57 can apparently be upregulated on activated human T cells by mere contact with CD57+ target cells."

"1268. Oncoimmunology. 2014 Dec 21;3(11):e970027. eCollection 2014 Nov.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells are vulnerable to immunosuppressive mechanisms  present within the tumor microenvironment.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells have shown early promise in hematological malignancies. However, in solid malignancies CAR T cells must overcome a distinct immunosuppressive microenvironment which may compromise their capacity to mediate antitumor activity."

"1269. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Dec 15;20(24):6418-28. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1170.  Epub 2014 Oct 15.","Development of T cells redirected to glypican-3 for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.","PURPOSE: The aim of our study is to elucidate whether T cells expressing GPC3-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) can efficiently eliminate GPC3-positive HCC cells and their potential in the treatment of HCC. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: T cells expressing a first-generation and third-generation GPC3-targeted CAR were prepared using lentiviral vector transduction. The in vitro and in vivo cytotoxic activities of the genetically engineered CAR T cells  were evaluated against various HCC cell lines. RESULTS: GPC3-targeted CAR T cells could efficiently kill GPC3-positive HCC cells but not GPC3-negative cells in vitro. These cytotoxic activities seemed to be positively correlated with GPC3 expression levels in the target cells. In addition, T cells expressing the third-generation GPC3-targeted CAR could eradicate HCC xenografts with high level of GPC3 expression and efficiently suppress the growth of HCC xenografts with low GPC3 expression level in vivo. The survival of the mice bearing established orthotopic Huh-7 xenografts was significantly prolonged by the treatment with the third-generation GPC3-targeted  CAR T cells. CONCLUSIONS: GPC3-targeted CAR T cells could potently eliminate GPC3-positive HCC cells, thereby providing a promising therapeutic intervention for GPC3-positive HCC."

"1270. Cancer Res. 2014 Dec 1;74(23):6796-805. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-0079. Epub  2014 Oct 8.","Efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy in large tumors relies upon stromal targeting by IFNγ.","Adoptive T-cell therapy using chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells (CAR-T therapy) has shown dramatic efficacy in patients with circulating lymphoma. However, eradication of solid tumors with CAR-T therapy has not been reported yet to be efficacious. In solid tumors, stroma destruction, due to MHC-restricted cross-presentation of tumor antigens to T cells, may be essential. However, CAR-Ts recognize antigens in an MHC-independent manner on cancer cells but not stroma cells. In this report, we show how CAR-Ts can be engineered to eradicate large established tumors with provision of a suitable CD28 costimulatory signal.  In an HER2-dependent tumor model, tumor rejection by HER2-specific CAR-Ts was associated with sustained influx and proliferation of the adoptively transferred  T cells. Interestingly, tumor rejection did not involve natural killer cells but  was associated instead with a marked increase in the level of M1 macrophages and  a requirement for IFNγ receptor expression on tumor stroma cells. Our results argue that CAR-T therapy is capable of eradicating solid tumors through a combination of antigen-independent stroma destruction and antigen-specific tumor  cell targeting."

"1271. Clin Immunol. 2014 Dec;155(2):160-75. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.10.002. Epub 2014  Oct 16.","Effective response and delayed toxicities of refractory advanced diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated by CD20-directed chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","We conducted a trial testing a CD20-specific CAR coupled with CD137 and the CD3ζ  moiety in patients with chemotherapy refractory advanced diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCL). Seven patients were enrolled. One of the two patients with no  bulky tumor obtained a 14-month durable and ongoing complete remission by cell infusion only, and another attained a 6-month tumor regression. Four of five patients with bulky tumor burden were evaluable for clinical efficacy, three of which attained 3- to 6-month tumor regression. Delayed toxicities related to cell infusion are directly correlated to tumor burden and tumor-harboring sites, and mainly included cytokine release symptoms, tumor lysis symptoms, massive hemorrhage of the alimentary tract and aggressive intrapulmonary inflammation surrounding extranodal lesions. These results show firstly that anti-CD20 CART cells can cause prolonged tumor regression in combination with debulking conditioning regimens for advanced DLBCL. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01735604."

"1272. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2014 Dec;25(6):345-57. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2014.051.","T cell receptor-engineered T cells to treat solid tumors: T cell processing toward optimal T cell fitness.","Therapy with autologous T cells that have been gene-engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) or T cell receptors (TCR) provides a feasible and broadly applicable treatment for cancer patients. In a clinical study in advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients with CAR T cells specific for carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX), we observed toxicities that (most likely) indicated in vivo function of CAR T cells as well as low T cell persistence and clinical response rates. The latter observations were confirmed by later clinical trials in other solid tumor types and other gene-modified T cells. To improve the efficacy of T cell therapy, we have redefined in vitro conditions to generate T cells with young phenotype, a key correlate with clinical outcome. For their impact on gene-modified T cell phenotype and function, we have tested various anti-CD3/CD28 mAb-based T cell activation and expansion conditions as well as several cytokines prior to and/or after gene transfer using two different receptors: CAIX CAR and MAGE-C2(ALK)/HLA-A2 TCR. In a total set of 16 healthy donors, we observed that T cell activation with soluble anti-CD3/CD28 mAbs in the presence of both IL15 and IL21 prior to TCR gene transfer resulted in enhanced proportions of gene-modified T cells with a preferred in vitro phenotype and better function. T cells generated according to these processing methods demonstrated enhanced binding of pMHC, and an enhanced proportion of CD8+, CD27+, CD62L+, CD45RA+T cells. These new conditions will be translated into a GMP protocol in preparation of a clinical adoptive therapy trial to treat patients with MAGE-C2-positive tumors."

"1273. J Immunol. 2014 Dec 1;193(11):5733-43. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1301769. Epub 2014 Oct 31.","Functional comparison of engineered T cells carrying a native TCR versus TCR-like antibody-based chimeric antigen receptors indicates affinity/avidity thresholds.","Adoptive transfer of Ag-specific T lymphocytes is an attractive form of immunotherapy for cancers. However, acquiring sufficient numbers of host-derived  tumor-specific T lymphocytes by selection and expansion is challenging, as these  cells may be rare or anergic. Using engineered T cells can overcome this difficulty. Such engineered cells can be generated using a chimeric Ag receptor based on common formats composed from Ag-recognition elements such as αβ-TCR genes with the desired specificity, or Ab variable domain fragments fused with T  cell-signaling moieties. Combining these recognition elements are Abs that recognize peptide-MHC. Such TCR-like Abs mimic the fine specificity of TCRs and exhibit both the binding properties and kinetics of high-affinity Abs. In this study, we compared the functional properties of engineered T cells expressing a native low affinity αβ-TCR chains or high affinity TCR-like Ab-based CAR targeting the same specificity. We isolated high-affinity TCR-like Abs recognizing HLA-A2-WT1Db126 complexes and constructed CAR that was transduced into T cells. Comparative analysis revealed major differences in function and specificity of such CAR-T cells or native TCR toward the same antigenic complex.  Whereas the native low-affinity αβ-TCR maintained potent cytotoxic activity and specificity, the high-affinity TCR-like Ab CAR exhibited reduced activity and loss of specificity. These results suggest an upper affinity threshold for TCR-based recognition to mediate effective functional outcomes of engineered T cells. The rational design of TCRs and TCR-based constructs may need to be optimized up to a given affinity threshold to achieve optimal T cell function."

"1275. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;22(6):1753-6. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.06.047.","[Treatment of lymphoblastic leukemia with CD19-specific modified chimeric antigen receptor T cells].","Bioengineered T cells, which are the genetically manipulated T cells to express chimeric antigen receptor T Cell (CAR T) against leukemia-associated specific antigens, were applied to treat acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with CAR T. CAR T cells combined with cell-surface binding site and anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor can treat diseases through T cells transfection. CAR T cells can recognize the CD19 antigen on B cells with specific cell-surface loci. CAR T cells can proliferate by 1000 times and differentiate in vivo by the CD19 antigen stimulation, therefore, kill the acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells effectively. This article briefly reviews the CAR T cells and the effect of CAR T cells on acute and chronic lymphoblastic leukemia."

"1276. Cancer Res. 2014 Nov 15;74(22):6383-9. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-1530. Epub 2014 Nov 4.","Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy to target hematologic malignancies.","Several decades of humoral immunotherapy using monoclonal antibodies and cellular immunotherapy using hematopoietic cell transplantation have recently culminated in a successful merger: the development and clinical application of genetically engineered antibody-T cell chimeras. Also known as chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR T cells), these entities combine the exquisite antigen specificity of  antibodies with the polyfunctionality and potency of cellular immunity and are a  prime example of the potential for synthetic biology to treat disease. CAR T cells overcome several of the biologic obstacles that have historically hampered  immunotherapy while providing fundamental mechanistic insights into cellular immunology and revealing new challenges in genetic engineering and target selection. Results from early-phase CAR T-cell-based clinical trials demonstrate  the significant potential for this approach to affect dramatic and complete clinical responses while revealing novel toxicities associated with activation of potent and specific antitumor immunity."

"1277. Sci Transl Med. 2014 Nov 5;6(261):261ra151. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3010162.","Regional delivery of mesothelin-targeted CAR T cell therapy generates potent and  long-lasting CD4-dependent tumor immunity.","Translating the recent success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy  for hematological malignancies to solid tumors will necessitate overcoming several obstacles, including inefficient T cell tumor infiltration and insufficient functional persistence. Taking advantage of an orthotopic model that faithfully mimics human pleural malignancy, we evaluated two routes of administration of mesothelin-targeted T cells using the M28z CAR. We found that intrapleurally administered CAR T cells vastly outperformed systemically infused  T cells, requiring 30-fold fewer M28z T cells to induce long-term complete remissions. After intrapleural T cell administration, prompt in vivo antigen-induced T cell activation allowed robust CAR T cell expansion and effector differentiation, resulting in enhanced antitumor efficacy and functional T cell persistence for 200 days. Regional T cell administration also promoted efficient elimination of extrathoracic tumor sites. This therapeutic efficacy was dependent on early CD4(+) T cell activation associated with a higher intratumoral CD4/CD8 cell ratios and CD28-dependent CD4(+) T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. In contrast, intravenously delivered CAR T cells, even when accumulated at equivalent numbers in the pleural tumor, did not achieve comparable activation, tumor eradication, or persistence. The ability of intrapleurally administered T cells to circulate and persist supports the concept of delivering optimal CAR T cell therapy through regional distribution centers. On the basis of these results, we are opening a phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety of intrapleural administration of mesothelin-targeted CAR T cells in patients with primary or secondary pleural malignancies."

"1278. Cancer Gene Ther. 2014 Nov;21(11):457-62. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2014.50. Epub 2014 Oct 3.","Neutrophil:lymphocyte ratios and serum cytokine changes after hepatic artery chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell infusions for liver metastases.","Our phase I Hepatic Immunotherapy for Metastases (HITM) trial tested the safety of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T) hepatic artery infusions (HAI) for unresectable carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)+ liver metastases (LM). High neutrophil:lymphocyte ratios (NLR) predict poor outcome in cancer patients and we hypothesized that NLR changes would correlate with early responses to CAR-T HAI. Six patients completed the protocol. Three patients received CAR-T HAI in dose escalation (1 × 10(8), 1 × 10(9) and 1 × 10(10) cells) and the remainder  received three doses (1 × 10(10) cells) with interleukin (IL)2 support. Serum cytokines and NLR were measured at multiple time points. The mean NLR for all patients was 13.9 (range 4.8-38.1). NLR increased in four patients following treatment with a mean fold change of 1.9. Serum IL6 levels and NLR fold changes demonstrated a trend towards a positive correlation (r=0.77, P=0.10). Patients with poor CEA responses were significantly more likely to have higher NLR level increases (P=0.048). Increased NLR levels were associated with poor responses following CAR-T HAI. NLR variations and associated cytokine changes may be useful surrogates of response to CAR-T HAI."

"1279. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Nov;2(11):1059-70. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0051. Epub 2014 Aug 7.","Nature of tumor control by permanently and transiently modified GD2 chimeric antigen receptor T cells in xenograft models of neuroblastoma.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy has begun to demonstrate success as a novel treatment modality for hematologic malignancies. The success observed thus  far has been with T cells permanently engineered to express chimeric receptors. T cells engineered using RNA electroporation represent an alternative with the potential for similar efficacy and greater safety when initially targeting novel  antigens. Neuroblastoma is a common pediatric solid tumor with the potential to be targeted using immunotherapy. We performed xenograft studies in NSG mice in which we assessed the efficacy of both permanently modified and transiently modified CAR T cells directed against the neuroblastoma antigen GD2 in both local and disseminated disease models. Disease response was monitored by tumor volume measurement and histologic examination, as well as in vivo bioluminescence. RNA-modified GD2 CAR T cells mediated rapid tumor destruction when delivered locally. A single infusion of lentivirally modified GD2 CAR T cells resulted in long-term control of disseminated disease. Multiple infusions of RNA GD2 CAR T cells slowed the progression of disseminated disease and improved survival, but did not result in long-term disease control. Histologic examination revealed that the transiently modified cells were unable to significantly penetrate the tumor environment when delivered systemically, despite multiple infusions of CAR T cells. Thus, we demonstrate that RNA-modified GD2 CAR T cells can mediate effective antitumor responses in vivo, and permanently modified cells are able to control disseminated neuroblastoma in xenograft mice. Lack of long-term disease control by RNA-engineered cells resulted from an inability to penetrate the tumor microenvironment."

"1280. Discov Med. 2014 Nov;18(100):265-71.","Challenges to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy for cancer.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells have demonstrated potent clinical efficacy in patients with B cell malignancies. However, the use of CAR-T cell therapy targeting other cancers has, in part, been limited by both the induction of antigen-specific toxicities targeting normal tissues expressing the  target-antigen, and the extreme potency of CAR-T cell treatments resulting in life-threatening cytokine-release syndromes. Herein, we discuss toxicities associated with CAR-T cell therapy in the clinic. Further, we discuss potential clinical interventions to ameliorate these toxicities and the application of preclinical animal models to predict the clinical utility of CAR-T cell therapy."

"1281. J Biomed Res. 2014 Nov;28(6):468-75. doi: 10.7555/JBR.28.20140066. Epub 2014 Dec  1.","T cells expressing a LMP1-specific chimeric antigen receptor mediate antitumor effects against LMP1-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo.","T cells modified with chimeric antigen receptor are an attractive strategy to treat Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) associated malignancies. The EBV latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is a 66-KD integral membrane protein encoded by EBV that consists of transmembrane-spanning loops. Previously, we have identified a functional signal chain variable fragment (scFv) that specifically recognizes LMP1 through phage library screening. Here, we constructed a LMP1 specific chimeric antigen receptor containing anti-LMP1 scFv, the CD28 signalling domain,  and the CD3ζ chain (HELA/CAR). We tested its functional ability to target LMP1 positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells. HELA/CAR cells were efficiently generated using lentivirus vector encoding the LMP1-specific chimeric antigen receptor to infect activated human CD3+ T cells. The HELA/CAR T cells displayed LMP1 specific cytolytic action and produced IFN-γ and IL-2 in response to nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells overexpressing LMP1. To demonstrate in vivo anti-tumor activity, we tested the HELA/CAR T cells in a xenograft model using an LMP1 overexpressing tumor. Intratumoral injection of anti-LMP1 HELA/CAR-T cells significantly reduced tumor growth in vivo. These results show that targeting LMP1 using HELA/CAR cells could represent an alternative therapeutic approach for patients with EBV-positive cancers."

"1282. Blood. 2014 Oct 30;124(18):2824-33. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-11-541235. Epub 2014  Jul 21.","Invariant NKT cells with chimeric antigen receptor provide a novel platform for safe and effective cancer immunotherapy.","Advances in the design of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have improved the antitumor efficacy of redirected T cells. However, functional heterogeneity of CAR T cells limits their therapeutic potential and is associated with toxicity. We proposed that CAR expression in Vα24-invariant natural killer T (NKT) cells can build on the natural antitumor properties of these cells while their restriction by monomorphic CD1d limits toxicity. Primary human NKT cells were engineered to express a CAR against the GD2 ganglioside (CAR.GD2), which is highly expressed by neuroblastoma (NB). We compared CAR.GD2 constructs that encoded the CD3ζ chain alone, with CD28, 4-1BB, or CD28 and 4-1BB costimulatory endodomains. CAR.GD2 expression rendered NKT cells highly cytotoxic against NB cells without affecting their CD1d-dependent reactivity. We observed a striking T helper 1-like polarization of NKT cells by 4-1BB-containing CARs. Importantly, expression of both CD28 and 4-1BB endodomains in the CAR.GD2 enhanced in vivo persistence of NKT cells. These CAR.GD2 NKT cells effectively localized to the tumor site had potent antitumor activity, and repeat injections significantly improved the long-term survival of mice with metastatic NB. Unlike T cells, CAR.GD2 NKT cells did not induce graft-versus-host disease. These results establish the potential of NKT cells to serve as a safe and effective platform for CAR-directed cancer immunotherapy."

"1283. Front Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 28;5:235. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2014.00235. eCollection 2014.","The inducible caspase-9 suicide gene system as a safety switch to limit on-target, off-tumor toxicities of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Immune modulation has become a central element in many cancer treatments, and T cells genetically engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) may provide a new approach to cancer immunotherapy. Autologous CAR T cells that have  been re-directed toward tumor-associated antigens (TAA) have shown promising results in phase 1 clinical trials, with some patients undergoing complete tumor  regression. However, this T-cell therapy must carefully balance effective T-cell  activation, to ensure antitumor activity, with the potential for uncontrolled activation that may produce immunopathology. An inducible Caspase 9 (iCasp9) safety switch offers a solution that allows for the removal of inappropriately  activated CAR T cells. The induction of iCasp9 depends on the administration of the small molecule dimerizer drug AP1903 and dimerization results in rapid induction of apoptosis in transduced cells, preferentially killing activated cells expressing high levels of transgene. The iCasp9 gene has been incorporated  into vectors for use in preclinical studies and demonstrates effective and reliable suicide gene activity in phase 1 clinical trials. A third-generation CAR incorporating iCasp9 re-directs T cells toward the GD2 TAA. GD2 is over-expressed in melanoma and other malignancies of neural crest origin and the safety and activity of these GD2-iCAR T cells will be investigated in CARPETS and other actively recruiting phase 1 trials."

"1284. Mol Cancer. 2014 Sep 21;13:219. doi: 10.1186/1476-4598-13-219.","Chimeric antigen receptor for adoptive immunotherapy of cancer: latest research and future prospects.","Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are recombinant receptors that combine the specificity of an antigen-specific antibody with the T-cells activating functions. Initial clinical trials of genetically engineered CAR T cells have significantly raised the profile of T cell therapy, and great efforts have been made to improve this approach. In this review, we provide a structural overview of the development of CAR technology and highlight areas that require further refinement. We also discuss critical issues related to CAR therapy, including the optimization of CAR T cells, the route of administration, CAR toxicity and the blocking of inhibitory molecules."

"1285. Cancer Res. 2014 Sep 15;74(18):5195-205. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-0697. Epub 2014 Jul 24.","Armed oncolytic virus enhances immune functions of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells in solid tumors.","The clinical efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T cells remains marginal in solid tumors compared with leukemias. Failures have been attributed to insufficient T-cell migration and to the highly immunosuppressive milieu of solid tumors. To overcome these obstacles, we have combined CAR-T cells with an oncolytic virus armed with the chemokine RANTES and the cytokine IL15, reasoning that the modified oncolytic virus will both have a direct lytic effect  on infected malignant cells and facilitate migration and survival of CAR-T cells. Using neuroblastoma as a tumor model, we found that the adenovirus Ad5Δ24 exerted a potent, dose-dependent, cytotoxic effect on tumor cells, whereas CAR-T cells specific for the tumor antigen GD2 (GD2.CAR-T cells) were not damaged. When used  in combination, Ad5Δ24 directly accelerated the caspase pathways in tumor cells exposed to CAR-T cells, whereas the intratumoral release of both RANTES and IL15  attracted CAR-T cells and promoted their local survival, respectively, increasing the overall survival of tumor-bearing mice. These preclinical data support the use of this innovative biologic platform of immunotherapy for solid tumors. Cancer Res; 74(18); 5195-205. ©2014 AACR."

"1286. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2014 Sep-Dec;27(3-4):247-58. doi: 10.1016/j.beha.2014.10.006. Epub 2014 Oct 14.","Will novel agents for ALL finally change the natural history?","Pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cure rates have markedly improved over the past years to approximately 85%, but remain at 40%-50% in adults. Redefining current adult chemotherapy regimens is likely to improve the natural course of the disease, but new agents are needed. Immunotherapy approaches for pre-B ALL are in the forefront of research on novel agents; in particular, advances are being made in manipulating autologous T cells either by infusion of  a bifunctional antibody (eg, blinatumomab) or by ex vivo genetic modification of  chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). The natural course of Philadelphia positive ALL has already improved by targeting ABL/BCR1. Other mutated genes are being discovered and novel small molecules that target their products are being studied in clinical trials. Finally, ALL is a heterogeneous disease and novel agents are  likely to impact the natural course of smaller populations of biologically defined ALL subtypes."

"1287. Cytotherapy. 2014 Sep;16(9):1257-69. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2014.05.022.","Anti-leukemic potency of piggyBac-mediated CD19-specific T cells against refractory Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.","BACKGROUND AIMS: To develop a treatment option for Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph(+)ALL) resistant to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), we evaluated the anti-leukemic activity of T cells non-virally engineered to express a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). METHODS: A CD19.CAR gene was delivered into mononuclear cells from 10 mL of blood of healthy donors through the use of piggyBac-transposons and the 4-D Nucleofector System. Nucleofected cells were stimulated with CD3/CD28 antibodies, magnetically selected for the CD19.CAR, and cultured in interleukin-15-containing serum-free medium with autologous feeder cells for 21 days. To evaluate their cytotoxic potency, we co-cultured CAR T cells with seven Ph(+)ALL cell lines including three TKI-resistant (T315I-mutated) lines at an effector-to-target ratio of 1:5 or lower without cytokines. RESULTS: We obtained ∼1.3 × 10(8) CAR T cells (CD4(+), 25.4%; CD8(+), 71.3%), co-expressing CD45RA and CCR7 up to ∼80%. After 7-day co-culture, CAR T cells eradicated all tumor cells at the 1:5 and 1:10 ratios and substantially reduced tumor cell numbers at the 1:50 ratio. Kinetic analysis revealed up to 37-fold proliferation of CAR T cells during a 20-day culture period in the presence of tumor cells. On exposure to tumor cells, CAR T cells transiently and reproducibly upregulated the expression of transgene as well as tumor necrosis factor-related  apoptosis-inducing ligand and interleukin-2. CONCLUSIONS: We generated a clinically relevant number of CAR T cells from 10 mL  of blood through the use of piggyBac-transposons, a 4D-Nulcleofector, and serum/xeno/tumor cell/virus-free culture system. CAR T cells exhibited marked cytotoxicity against Ph(+)ALL regardless of T315I mutation. PiggyBac-mediated CD19-specific T-cell therapy may provide an effective, inexpensive and safe option for drug-resistant Ph(+)ALL."

"1288. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Aug 15;20(16):4262-73. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-2627.  Epub 2014 Jun 11.","Multifactorial T-cell hypofunction that is reversible can limit the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor-transduced human T cells in solid tumors.","PURPOSE: Immunotherapy using vaccines or adoptively transferred tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is limited by T-cell functional inactivation within the solid tumor microenvironment. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a similar tumor-induced inhibition occurred with genetically modified cytotoxic T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) targeting  tumor-associated antigens. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Human T cells expressing CAR targeting mesothelin or fibroblast activation protein and containing CD3ζ and 4-1BB cytoplasmic domains were intravenously injected into immunodeficient mice bearing large, established  human mesothelin-expressing flank tumors. CAR TILs were isolated from tumors at various time points and evaluated for effector functions and status of inhibitory pathways. RESULTS: CAR T cells were able to traffic into tumors with varying efficiency and proliferate. They were able to slow tumor growth, but did not cause regressions or cures. The CAR TILs underwent rapid loss of functional activity that limited their therapeutic efficacy. This hypofunction was reversible when the T cells were isolated away from the tumor. The cause of the hypofunction seemed to be multifactorial and was associated with upregulation of intrinsic T-cell inhibitory enzymes (diacylglycerol kinase and SHP-1) and the expression of surface inhibitory receptors (PD1, LAG3, TIM3, and 2B4). CONCLUSIONS: Advanced-generation human CAR T cells are reversibly inactivated within the solid tumor microenvironment of some tumors by multiple mechanisms. The model described here will be an important tool for testing T cell-based strategies or systemic approaches to overcome this tumor-induced inhibition. Our  results suggest that PD1 pathway antagonism may augment human CAR T-cell function."

"1289. Blood. 2014 Aug 14;124(7):1070-80. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-10-535245. Epub 2014 Jul 1.","ICOS-based chimeric antigen receptors program bipolar TH17/TH1 cells.","With the notable exception of B-cell malignancies, the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells has been limited, and CAR T cells have not been shown to expand and persist in patients with nonlymphoid tumors. Here we demonstrate that redirection of primary human T cells with a CAR containing the inducible costimulator (ICOS) intracellular domain generates tumor-specific IL-17-producing effector cells that show enhanced persistence. Compared with CARs containing the CD3ζ chain alone, or in tandem with the CD28 or the 4-1BB intracellular domains, ICOS signaling increased IL-17A, IL-17F, and IL-22 following antigen recognition. In addition, T cells redirected with an ICOS-based CAR maintained a core molecular signature characteristic of TH17 cells and expressed higher levels of RORC, CD161, IL1R-1, and NCS1. Of note, ICOS signaling also induced the expression of IFN-γ and T-bet, consistent with a TH17/TH1 bipolarization. When transferred into mice with established tumors, TH17 cells that were redirected with ICOS-based CARs mediated efficient antitumor responses  and showed enhanced persistence compared with CD28- or 4-1BB-based CAR T cells. Thus, redirection of TH17 cells with a CAR encoding the ICOS intracellular domain is a promising approach to augment the function and persistence of CAR T cells in hematologic malignancies."

"1293. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Aug;22(4):1137-41. doi: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.04.048.","[Clinical translational research of chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cells for the treatment of relapsed and refractory B-cell lymphoma/leukemia].","B-cell lymphoma and leukemia are the most common subtypes of malignant lymphomas. Relapse and refractory to multiple therapy are the main reasons of treatment failure. As the classical anti-tumor methods, surgery, radiation, chemotherapy and palliative therapy have cured lots of cancer patients. However, each year many patients still died of different kinds of hard-to-treat cancers. Although the ratio of complete remission of B-cell lymphoma/leukemia patients particularly with CD20 positive mature B cell malignancies has been largely increased after the application of Rituximab in clinic, nearly 20%-40% patients still died due to relapse and refractory to the treatment. During last five years, the development  of chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cells, especially CD19 CAR-T cells, which  can recognize CD19 specifically expressed on B cells and have been demonstrated to be significantly effective to relapsed and refractory B cell lymphoma/leukemia in clinical trials, has gradually attracted extensively concerning from researchers and clinicians. Many medical institutions all over the world (besides in China) have registered the clinical trials for B-cell lymphoma/leukemia patients by use of CAR-T cells. In this review, we summarize the developmental history, the main ongoing clinical trials and proved potential adverse affects of CD19 CAR-T cells for the treatment of patients with B-cell lymphoma/leukemia."

"1294. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jul 22;111(29):10660-5. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1312789111. Epub 2014 Jul 7.","Bioengineering T cells to target carbohydrate to treat opportunistic fungal infection.","Clinical-grade T cells are genetically modified ex vivo to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to redirect their specificity to target tumor-associated antigens in vivo. We now have developed this molecular strategy to render cytotoxic T cells specific for fungi. We adapted the pattern-recognition receptor Dectin-1 to activate T cells via chimeric CD28 and CD3-ζ (designated D-CAR) upon binding with carbohydrate in the cell wall of Aspergillus germlings. T cells genetically modified with the Sleeping Beauty system to express D-CAR stably were propagated selectively on artificial activating and propagating cells using an approach similar to that approved by the Food and Drug Administration for manufacturing CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells for clinical trials. The D-CAR(+) T cells exhibited specificity for β-glucan which led to damage and inhibition of hyphal growth of Aspergillus in vitro and in vivo. Treatment of D-CAR(+) T cells  with steroids did not compromise antifungal activity significantly. These data support the targeting of carbohydrate antigens by CAR(+) T cells and provide a clinically appealing strategy to enhance immunity for opportunistic fungal infections using T-cell gene therapy."

"1298. Cytotherapy. 2014 Jun;16(6):713-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 Nov 13.","Engineered T cells for cancer treatment.","Adoptively transferred T cells have the capacity to traffic to distant tumor sites, infiltrate fibrotic tissue and kill antigen-expressing tumor cells. Various groups have investigated different genetic engineering strategies designed to enhance tumor specificity, increase T cell potency, improve proliferation, persistence or migratory capacity and increase safety. This review focuses on recent developments in T cell engineering, discusses the clinical application of these engineered cell products and outlines future prospects for this therapeutic modality."

"1299. Gene Ther. 2014 Jun;21(6):575-84. doi: 10.1038/gt.2014.30. Epub 2014 Apr 3.","Construction and molecular characterization of a T-cell receptor-like antibody and CAR-T cells specific for minor histocompatibility antigen HA-1H.","The genetic transfer of T-cell receptors (TCRs) directed toward target antigens into T lymphocytes has been used to generate antitumor T cells efficiently without the need for the in vitro induction and expansion of T cells with cognate specificity. Alternatively, T cells have been gene-modified with a TCR-like antibody or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). We show that immunization of HLA-A2  transgenic mice with tetramerized recombinant HLA-A2 incorporating HA-1 H minor histocompatibility antigen (mHag) peptides and β2-microglobulin (HA-1 H/HLA-A2) generate highly specific antibodies. One single-chain variable region moiety (scFv) antibody, #131, demonstrated high affinity (KD=14.9 nM) for the HA-1 H/HLA-A2 complex. Primary human T cells transduced with #131 scFV coupled to CD28 transmembrane and CD3ζ domains were stained with HA-1 H/HLA-A2 tetramers slightly more intensely than a cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clone specific for endogenously HLA-A2- and HA-1 H-positive cells. Although #131 scFv CAR-T cells required >100-fold higher antigen density to exert cytotoxicity compared with the cognate CTL clone, they could produce inflammatory cytokines against cells expressing HLA-A2 and HA-1 H transgenes. These data implicate that T cells with high-affinity antigen receptors reduce the ability to lyse targets with low-density peptide/MHC complexes (~100 per cell), while they could respond at cytokine production level."

"1302. J Immunother. 2014 May;37(4):204-13. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000032.","Universal artificial antigen presenting cells to selectively propagate T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptor independent of specificity.","T cells genetically modified to stably express immunoreceptors are being assessed for therapeutic potential in clinical trials. T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) are endowed with a new specificity to target tumor-associated antigen (TAA) independent of major histocompatibility complex. Our approach to nonviral gene transfer in T cells uses ex vivo numeric expansion  of CAR T cells on irradiated artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPC) bearing the targeted TAA. The requirement for aAPC to express a desired TAA limits the human application of CARs with multiple specificities when selective expansion through coculture with feeder cells is sought. As an alternative to expressing individual TAAs on aAPC, we expressed 1 ligand that could activate CAR T cells for sustained proliferation independent of specificity. We expressed a CAR ligand (designated CARL) that binds the conserved IgG4 extracellular domain of CAR and demonstrated that CARL aAPC propagate CAR T cells of multiple specificities. CARL avoids technical issues and costs associated with deploying clinical-grade aAPC for each TAA targeted by a given CAR. Using CARL enables 1 aAPC to numerically expand all CAR T cells containing the IgG4 domain, and simplifies expansion, testing, and clinical translation of CAR T cells of any specificity."

"1303. Mol Ther. 2014 May;22(5):1029-38. doi: 10.1038/mt.2014.28. Epub 2014 Feb 27.","Elimination of progressive mammary cancer by repeated administrations of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","Continuous oncogenic processes that generate cancer require an on-going treatment approach to eliminate the transformed cells, and prevent their further development. Here, we studied the ability of T cells expressing a chimeric antibody-based receptor (CAR) to offer a therapeutic benefit for breast cancer induced by erbB-2. We tested CAR-modified T cells (T-bodies) specific to erbB-2 for their antitumor potential in a mouse model overexpressing a human erbB-2 transgene that develops mammary tumors. Comparing the antitumor reactivity of CAR-modified T cells under various therapeutic settings, either prophylactic, prior to tumor development, or therapeutically. We found that repeated administration of CAR-modified T cells is required to eliminate spontaneously developing mammary cancer. Systemic, as well as intratumoral administered CAR-modified T cells accumulated at tumor sites and eventually eliminated the malignant cells. Interestingly, within a few weeks after a single CAR T cells administration, and rejection of primary lesion, tumors usually relapsed both in  treated mammary gland and at remote sites; however, repeated injections of CAR-modified T cells were able to control the secondary tumors. Since spontaneous tumors can arise repeatedly, especially in the case of syndromes characterized by specific susceptibility to cancer, multiple administrations of CAR-modified T cells can serve to control relapsing disease."

"1304. Blood. 2014 Apr 24;123(17):2625-35. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-11-492231. Epub 2014  Feb 27.","Antibody-modified T cells: CARs take the front seat for hematologic malignancies.","T cells redirected to specific antigen targets with engineered chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are emerging as powerful therapies in hematologic malignancies.  Various CAR designs, manufacturing processes, and study populations, among other  variables, have been tested and reported in over 10 clinical trials. Here, we review and compare the results of the reported clinical trials and discuss the progress and key emerging factors that may play a role in effecting tumor responses. We also discuss the outlook for CAR T-cell therapies, including managing toxicities and expanding the availability of personalized cell therapy as a promising approach to all hematologic malignancies. Many questions remain in the field of CAR T cells directed to hematologic malignancies, but the encouraging response rates pave a wide road for future investigation."

"1305. J Immunol. 2014 Apr 15;192(8):3654-65. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302148. Epub 2014 Mar 12.","Differential role of Th1 and Th2 cytokines in autotoxicity driven by CD19-specific second-generation chimeric antigen receptor T cells in a mouse model.","T cells engrafted with chimeric AgRs (CAR) are showing exciting potential for targeting B cell malignancies in early-phase clinical trials. To determine whether the second-generation CAR was essential for optimal antitumor activity, two CD28-based CAR constructs targeting CD19 were tested for their ability to redirect mouse T cell function against established B cell lymphoma in a BALB/c syngeneic model system. T cells armed with either CAR eliminated A20 B cell lymphoma in vivo; however, one construct induced a T cell dose-dependent acute toxicity associated with a raised serum Th1 type cytokine profile on transfer into preconditioned mice. Moreover, a chronic toxicity manifested as granuloma-like formation in spleen, liver, and lymph nodes was observed in animals receiving T cells bearing either CD28 CAR, albeit with different kinetics dependent upon the specific receptor used. This phenotype was associated with an  expansion of CD4+ CAR+ T cells and CD11b+ Gr-1(+) myeloid cells and increased serum Th2-type cytokines, including IL-10 and IL-13. Mouse T cells engrafted with a first-generation CAR failed to develop such autotoxicity, whereas toxicity was  not apparent when T cells bearing the same receptors were transferred into C57BL/6 or C3H animals. In summary, the adoptive transfer of second-generation CD19-specific CAR T cells can result in a cell dose-dependent acute toxicity, whereas the prolonged secretion of high levels of Th2 cytokines from these CAR T  cells in vivo drives a granulomatous reaction resulting in chronic toxicity. Strategies that prevent a prolonged Th2-cytokine biased CAR T cell response are clearly warranted."

"1306. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 10;9(4):e94281. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094281. eCollection 2014.","EGFRvIII-specific chimeric antigen receptor T cells migrate to and kill tumor deposits infiltrating the brain parenchyma in an invasive xenograft model of glioblastoma.","Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary malignant brain tumor in adults and is uniformly lethal. T-cell-based immunotherapy offers a promising platform for treatment given its potential to specifically target tumor tissue while sparing the normal brain. However, the diffuse and infiltrative nature of these tumors in the brain parenchyma may pose an exceptional hurdle to successful immunotherapy in patients. Areas of invasive tumor are thought to reside behind an intact blood brain barrier, isolating them from effective immunosurveillance and thereby predisposing the development of immunologically silent tumor peninsulas. Therefore, it remains unclear if adoptively transferred T cells can migrate to and mediate regression in areas of invasive GBM. One barrier has been the lack of a preclinical mouse model that accurately recapitulates the growth patterns of human GBM in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that D-270 MG xenografts exhibit the classical features of GBM and produce the diffuse and invasive tumors seen in patients. Using this model, we designed experiments to assess whether T cells expressing third-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting the tumor-specific mutation of the epidermal growth factor receptor, EGFRvIII, would  localize to and treat invasive intracerebral GBM. EGFRvIII-targeted CAR (EGFRvIII+ CAR) T cells demonstrated in vitro EGFRvIII antigen-specific recognition and reactivity to the D-270 MG cell line, which naturally expresses EGFRvIII. Moreover, when administered systemically, EGFRvIII+ CAR T cells localized to areas of invasive tumor, suppressed tumor growth, and enhanced survival of mice with established intracranial D-270 MG tumors. Together, these data demonstrate that systemically administered T cells are capable of migrating  to the invasive edges of GBM to mediate antitumor efficacy and tumor regression."

"1308. Cancer J. 2014 Mar-Apr;20(2):151-5. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000032.","CAR T cells for solid tumors: armed and ready to go?","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells face a unique set of challenges in the context of solid tumors. To induce a favorable clinical outcome, CAR T cells have to surmount a series of increasingly arduous tasks. First, they have to be made specific for an antigen whose expression clearly demarcates tumor from normal tissue. Then, they must be able to home and penetrate the desmoplastic stroma that surrounds the tumor. Once within the tumor, they must expand, persist, and mediate cytotoxicity in a hostile milieu largely composed of immunosuppressive modulators. Whereas a seemingly herculean task, all of the aforementioned requirements can potentially be met effectively through both intrinsic and/or extrinsic modifications of CAR T cells. In this review, we delineate the barriers imposed by solid tumors on CARs and strategies that have and should be undertaken to improve therapeutic response."

"1309. Cancer J. 2014 Mar-Apr;20(2):127-33. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000034.","CD28z CARs and armored CARs.","CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are currently being tested  in the clinic with very promising outcomes. However, limitations to CAR T cell therapy exist. These include lack of efficacy against some tumors, specific targeting of tumor cells without affecting normal tissue and retaining activity within the suppressive tumor microenvironment. Whereas promising clinical trials  are in progress, preclinical development is focused on optimizing CAR design, to  generate armored CAR T cells, which are protected from the inhibitory tumor microenvironment. Studies investigating the expression of cytokine transgenes, combination therapy with small molecule inhibitors, or monoclonal antibodies, are aimed at improving the antitumor efficacy of CAR T cell therapy. Other strategies aimed at improving CAR T cell therapy include using dual CARs and chemokine receptors to more specifically target tumor cells. This review will describe the  current clinical data and some novel armored CAR T cell approaches for improving  antitumor efficacy therapy."

"1310. Cancer J. 2014 Mar-Apr;20(2):123-6. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000027.","The emergence of T-bodies/CAR T cells.","The nickname T-body is used to denote a T cell expressing an antigen-specific or antibody-based chimeric receptor that combines antibody specificity with T-cell effector or regulatory function. Initially, we designed and constructed chimeric antibody-based receptors and expressed them in T cells to study the role of major histocompatibility complex in triggering T-cell activation. To this end, we replaced both variable domains (Vα and Vβ of the native T-cell receptor chains) with antibody-derived VH and VL sequences. After transfection into T cells, the 2 chimeric chains paired, associated with the CD3 complex, and endowed transfectants with non-major histocompatibility complex-restricted antibody type  specificity. In subsequent studies, we developed next generation of chimeric antibody-based receptors by fusing an antibody single-chain variable fragment to  T-cell activation motifs. This modular configuration simplified gene transfer, avoided mixed pairing with endogenous T-cell receptor chains, and enabled simultaneous insertion of various domains as costimulatory moieties to generate T-bodies with efficient antitumor reactivity."

"1311. Cancer J. 2014 Mar-Apr;20(2):112-8. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000031.","CD19-CAR trials.","CD19 is a B-lineage-specific transmembrane glycoprotein, the expression of which  is maintained on more than 95% B-cell malignancies. This strict lineage restriction makes CD19 an ideal target for immune therapies using chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). Here, we review published phase 1 trials of T cells expressing CARs targeting CD19 and describe briefly the biological questions that they addressed. All patients treated in these trials had relapsed B-cell malignancies, which in many cases were chemorefractory. Nonetheless, major responses have been observed, especially in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Many of these responses were accompanied by a systemic inflammatory reaction syndrome that could be life threatening but was almost always reversible with adequate medical management. Given their remarkable activity, CD19-CAR T cells are likely to be quickly incorporated into the management of B-cell neoplasms; these cells have become the paradigm for similar strategies targeting other cancers."

"1312. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2014 Mar;9(1):50-6. doi: 10.1007/s11899-013-0197-7.","Driving CAR-based T-cell therapy to success.","T cells that have been genetically modified, activated, and propagated ex vivo can be infused to control tumor progression in patients who are refractory to conventional treatments. Early-phase clinical trials demonstrate that the tumor-associated antigen (TAA) CD19 can be therapeutically engaged through the enforced expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) on clinical-grade T cells. Advances in vector design, the architecture of the CAR molecule especially as associated with T-cell co-stimulatory pathways, and understanding of the tumor microenvironment, play significant roles in the successful treatment of medically fragile patients. However, some recipients of CAR(+) T cells demonstrate incomplete responses. Understanding the potential for treatment failure provides  a pathway to improve the potency of adoptive transfer of CAR(+) T cells. High throughput single-cell analyses to understand the complexity of the inoculum coupled with animal models may provide insight into the therapeutic potential of  genetically modified T cells. This review focuses on recent advances regarding the human application of CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells and explores how their success for hematologic cancers can provide a framework for investigational treatment of solid tumor malignancies."

"1313. Mol Ther. 2014 Mar;22(3):623-633. doi: 10.1038/mt.2013.262. Epub 2013 Nov 28.","Kinetics of tumor destruction by chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells.","The use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells as a therapy for hematologic malignancies and solid tumors is becoming more widespread. However, the infusion of a T-cell product targeting a single tumor-associated antigen may  lead to target antigen modulation under this selective pressure, with subsequent  tumor immune escape. With the purpose of preventing this phenomenon, we have studied the impact of simultaneously targeting two distinct antigens present on tumor cells: namely mucin 1 and prostate stem cell antigen, both of which are expressed in a variety of solid tumors, including pancreatic and prostate cancer. When used individually, CAR T cells directed against either tumor antigen were able to kill target-expressing cancer cells, but tumor heterogeneity led to immune escape. As a combination therapy, we demonstrate superior antitumor effects using both CARs simultaneously, but this was nevertheless insufficient to achieve a complete response. To understand the mechanism of escape, we studied the kinetics of T-cell killing and found that the magnitude of tumor destruction  depended not only on the presence of target antigens but also on the intensity of expression-a feature that could be altered by administering epigenetic modulators that upregulated target expression and enhanced CAR T-cell potency."

"1315. Cancer Lett. 2014 Feb 28;343(2):172-8. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2013.10.004. Epub 2013 Oct 16.","Cytokine release syndrome in cancer immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor  engineered T cells.","Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells is a promising therapy for cancers. However, the safety of this approach is concerned. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a common but lethal complication of CAR-T cell therapy. The development of CRS correlates with CAR structures, tumor type and burden, and patients genetic polymorphisms. CRS related adverse events may be reduced by designing safer CARs and CAR-T cells and following strict dose-escalation scheme. Timely and effective cytokine-directed treatment with corticosteroid and various cytokine antagonists is important to avoid CRS associated death."

"1317. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2014 Feb;63(2):133-45. doi: 10.1007/s00262-013-1492-9. Epub 2013 Nov 5.","Definition and application of good manufacturing process-compliant production of  CEA-specific chimeric antigen receptor expressing T-cells for phase I/II clinical trial.","Adoptive cell therapy employing gene-modified T-cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) has shown promising preclinical activity in a range of model systems and is now being tested in the clinical setting. The manufacture of CAR T-cells requires compliance with national and European regulations for the production of medicinal products. We established such a compliant process to produce T-cells armed with a first-generation CAR specific for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). CAR T-cells were successfully generated for 14 patients with advanced CEA(+) malignancy. Of note, in the majority of patients, the defined procedure generated predominantly CD4(+) CAR T-cells with the general T-cell population bearing an effector-memory phenotype and high in vitro effector function. Thus, improving the process to generate less-differentiated T-cells would be more desirable in the future for effective adoptive gene-modified T-cell therapy. However, these results confirm that CAR T-cells can be generated in a manner compliant with regulations governing medicinal products in the European Union."

"1318. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Feb;2(2):154-66. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0027. Epub 2013 Nov 12.","Targeting fibroblast activation protein in tumor stroma with chimeric antigen receptor T cells can inhibit tumor growth and augment host immunity without severe toxicity.","The majority of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell research has focused on attacking cancer cells. Here, we show that targeting the tumor-promoting, nontransformed stromal cells using CAR T cells may offer several advantages. We developed a retroviral CAR construct specific for the mouse fibroblast activation protein (FAP), comprising a single-chain Fv FAP [monoclonal antibody (mAb) 73.3]  with the CD8α hinge and transmembrane regions, and the human CD3ζ and 4-1BB activation domains. The transduced muFAP-CAR mouse T cells secreted IFN-γ and killed FAP-expressing 3T3 target cells specifically. Adoptively transferred 73.3-FAP-CAR mouse T cells selectively reduced FAP(hi) stromal cells and inhibited the growth of multiple types of subcutaneously transplanted tumors in wild-type, but not FAP-null immune-competent syngeneic mice. The antitumor effects could be augmented by multiple injections of the CAR T cells, by using CAR T cells with a deficiency in diacylglycerol kinase, or by combination with a  vaccine. A major mechanism of action of the muFAP-CAR T cells was the augmentation of the endogenous CD8(+) T-cell antitumor responses. Off-tumor toxicity in our models was minimal following muFAP-CAR T-cell therapy. In summary, inhibiting tumor growth by targeting tumor stroma with adoptively transferred CAR T cells directed to FAP can be safe and effective, suggesting that further clinical development of anti-human FAP-CAR is warranted."

"1319. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Feb;2(2):112-20. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0170.","Mesothelin-specific chimeric antigen receptor mRNA-engineered T cells induce anti-tumor activity in solid malignancies."," Off-target toxicity due to the expression of target antigens in normal tissue represents a major obstacle to the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells for treatment of solid malignancies. To circumvent this  issue, we established a clinical platform for engineering T cells with transient  CAR expression by using in vitro transcribed mRNA encoding a CAR that includes both the CD3-ζ and 4-1BB co-stimulatory domains. We present two case reports from ongoing trials indicating that adoptive transfer of mRNA CAR T cells that target  mesothelin (CARTmeso cells) is feasible and safe without overt evidence of off-tumor on-target toxicity against normal tissues. CARTmeso cells persisted transiently within the peripheral blood after intravenous administration and migrated to primary and metastatic tumor sites. Clinical and laboratory evidence  of antitumor activity was demonstrated in both patients and the CARTmeso cells elicited an antitumor immune response revealed by the development of novel anti-self antibodies. These data demonstrate the potential of utilizing mRNA engineered T cells to evaluate, in a controlled manner, potential off-tumor on-target toxicities and show that short-lived CAR T cells can induce epitope-spreading and mediate antitumor activity in patients with advanced cancer. Thus, these findings support the development of mRNA CAR-based strategies for carcinoma and other solid tumors."

"1320. Curr Gene Ther. 2014 Feb;14(1):35-43.","Clinical immunotherapy of B-cell malignancy using CD19-targeted CAR T-cells.","The CD19 molecule is ubiquitously expressed throughout all stages of B-cell differentiation, but is not found on haemopoietic stem cells. Since most B-cell leukaemias and lymphomas retain CD19 expression, it represents an excellent target for immunotherapy of these malignant disorders. Over the past 10 years, compelling pre-clinical evidence has accrued to indicate that expression of a CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) in peripheral blood T-cells exerts  therapeutic efficacy in diverse models of B-cell malignancy. Building on this, clinical studies are ongoing in several centres in which autologous CD19-specific CAR T-cells are undergoing evaluation in patients with acute and chronic B-cell leukaemia and refractory lymphoma. Early data have generated considerable excitement, providing grounds to speculate that CAR-based immunotherapy will radically alter existing management paradigms in B-cell malignancy. The focus of  this mini-review is to evaluate these emerging clinical data and to speculate on  clinical prospects for this new therapeutic modality."

"1321. J Immunother. 2014 Feb-Mar;37(2):93-104. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000018.","Diverse solid tumors expressing a restricted epitope of L1-CAM can be targeted by chimeric antigen receptor redirected T lymphocytes.","Adhesion molecule L1-CAM (CD171) was originally reported to be overexpressed on neuroblastoma and to play an important role during tumor progression. More recently, it has been shown to be overexpressed on many other solid tumors such as melanoma and carcinomas of the cervix, ovary, bladder, and others. Thus, there has been a growing interest in using this cell-surface molecule as a target for both antibody-based and cellular-based therapy-our group has previously examined  the clinical utility of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected cytolytic T cells that specifically target the CE7 epitope of L1-CAM on neuroblastoma patients. Here, we sought to determine whether this CE7 epitope is present on other recently identified L1-CAM tumors and whether it too can be targeted by CAR T cells. Our studies demonstrate that a diverse array of human tumor cell lines and primary solid tumors (ovarian, lung, and renal carcinoma, glioblastoma and neuroblastoma) do express the CE7 epitope and can efficiently stimulate CE7-specific CAR-redirected (CE7R) T-cell lytic activity and secretion of proinflamatory cytokines. L1-CAM was also detected on a limited number of normal  tissues; however, L1-CAM expressed on normal human monocytes was not bound by the CE7 mAb nor was it targeted by CE7R T cells, suggesting that the CE7 epitope is more tumor restricted and not expressed on all L1-CAM tissues. Overall, the CE7 epitope of L1-CAM on a variety of tumors may be amenable to targeting by CE7R T cells, making it a promising target for adoptive immunotherapy."

"1322. BMC Cancer. 2014 Jan 18;14:30. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-30.","Systemic treatment with CAR-engineered T cells against PSCA delays subcutaneous tumor growth and prolongs survival of mice.","BACKGROUND: Adoptive transfer of T cells genetically engineered with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has successfully been used to treat both chronic and acute lymphocytic leukemia as well as other hematological cancers. Experimental therapy with CAR-engineered T cells has also shown promising results on solid tumors. The prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA) is a protein expressed on the surface of prostate epithelial cells as well as in primary and metastatic prostate cancer cells and therefore a promising target for immunotherapy of prostate cancer. METHODS: We developed a third-generation CAR against PSCA including the CD28, OX-40 and CD3 ζ signaling domains. T cells were transduced with a lentivirus encoding the PSCA-CAR and evaluated for cytokine production (paired Students t-test), proliferation (paired Students t-test), CD107a expression (paired Students t-test) and target cell killing in vitro and tumor growth and survival  in vivo (Log-rank test comparing Kaplan-Meier survival curves). RESULTS: PSCA-CAR T cells exhibit specific interferon (IFN)-γ and interleukin (IL)-2 secretion and specific proliferation in response to PSCA-expressing target cells. Furthermore, the PSCA-CAR-engineered T cells efficiently kill PSCA-expressing tumor cells in vitro and systemic treatment with PSCA-CAR-engineered T cells significantly delays subcutaneous tumor growth and prolongs survival of mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirms that PSCA-CAR T cells may be developed for treatment of prostate cancer."

"1323. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2014:e317-25. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.e317.","Novel treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and moving forward.","The last several years have seen an explosion of novel therapies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). These include the antibody obintutuzumab (GA-101), as well as small-molecule inhibitors of key pathways involved in the pathogenesis of CLL, specifically the B-cell receptor (BCR) pathway (especially Brutons tyrosine kinase [BTK] and P13K), and the antiapoptotic pathway (especially BCL-2). We will consider each in turn, focusing on the molecules most advanced in clinical development. There has also been extensive development in rewiring the patients  own immune system to treat CLL. This has been done through modifying autologous T cells to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). Thus far all CAR-T preparations have targeted the CD19 antigen. This is a good rational for B-cell malignancies as CD19 expression is limited to B-cell malignancies and normal B cells. The in vivo amplification of the transduced T cells relies on signaling and co-signaling domains and provides significant killing of CLL cells. As exciting as these novel agents and approaches are, they obviously beg the question, will chemotherapy as a treatment for CLL soon be obsolete? Although chemotherapy is associated with known short-term toxicities, it has the advantage of being completed in a short period of time and being relatively inexpensive in  comparison to novel therapies. In addition, long-term follow-up of results with chemoimmunotherapy have now identified a group of patients whose remissions are maintained for more than 10 years. An important question that will arise going forward is how to incorporate novel agents without eliminating the long term benefits possible with chemoimmunotherapy in a subset of patients with CLL."

"1324. Discov Med. 2014 Jan;17(91):15-24.","Advances in cellular therapy for the treatment of leukemia.","Adoptive immunotherapy in the form of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is a treatment modality for acute and chronic leukemias that has been in practice for several decades. Drawbacks to transplantation include toxicity from chemotherapy/radiation conditioning regimens, additional toxicity from graft versus host disease, and reliance on appropriate human leukocyte antigen matched donors. Newer modalities with increased specificity of donor cells to tumor cells in addition to therapies that do not require engraftment for anti-tumor effect reduce the risk of graft versus  host disease and may create a more robust graft versus leukemia response. Without the need for engraftment, or at the very least in the absence of a 100% engraftment requirement, conditioning regimens may be minimized. Three methods of adoptive immunotherapy that may offer some of these advantages over traditional transplantation are donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI), chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells (CAR T cells), and cellular immunotherapy. DLIs and cellular therapy consist of transfusing T lymphocytes from the donor to recipient in an unmanipulated form. Alternatively, donor T lymphocytes can be modified with addition of chimeric antigen receptors for specific antigen directed killing of tumor cells. Significant responses and survival benefit have been reported with these modalities. Herein, we review the mechanisms for these newer adoptive immune therapies, clinical indications for their use, and potential future directions."

"1325. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014;10(11):3409-14. doi: 10.4161/21645515.2014.982999.","Regulatory considerations for clinical development of cancer vaccines.","Cancer vaccines are aimed at stimulating an immune response to tumor tissue. There is a high level of clinical activity in this rapidly advancing field with over 1,400 trials registered on Clincaltrials.gov. The recent approval of Sipuleucel-T which is the first cancer vaccine approved in the US and EU has encouraged developers in this field. In contrast to more established approaches for treating cancer such as chemotherapy, regulatory guidelines have been developed relatively recently for cancer vaccines. These guidelines advise on general clinical requirements. As there is an increase in innovative strategies with novel products, a 2-way dialog with regulators is recommended on a case-by-case basis to justify the clinical development plan, taking into account  specific quality issues related to the product(s) in development. It is important that the rationale, background and justification for the planned development is convincing when interacting with the regulatory authorities, to enable drug developers and regulators to reach agreement."

"1326. Immunol Rev. 2014 Jan;257(1):181-90. doi: 10.1111/imr.12137.","A new approach to gene therapy using Sleeping Beauty to genetically modify clinical-grade T cells to target CD19.","The advent of efficient approaches to the genetic modification of T cells has provided investigators with clinically appealing methods to improve the potency of tumor-specific clinical grade T cells. For example, gene therapy has been successfully used to enforce expression of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that provide T cells with ability to directly recognize tumor-associated antigens without the need for presentation by human leukocyte antigen. Gene transfer of CARs can be undertaken using viral-based and non-viral approaches. We have advanced DNA vectors derived from the Sleeping Beauty (SB) system to avoid the expense and manufacturing difficulty associated with transducing T cells with recombinant viral vectors. After electroporation, the transposon/transposase improves the efficiency of integration of plasmids used to express CAR and other  transgenes in T cells. The SB system combined with artificial antigen-presenting  cells (aAPC) can selectively propagate and thus retrieve CAR(+) T cells suitable  for human application. This review describes the translation of the SB system and aAPC for use in clinical trials and highlights how a nimble and cost-effective approach to developing genetically modified T cells can be used to implement clinical trials infusing next-generation T cells with improved therapeutic potential."

"1327. Immunol Rev. 2014 Jan;257(1):107-26. doi: 10.1111/imr.12131.","Design and development of therapies using chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T  cells.","Investigators developed chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) for expression on T cells more than 25 years ago. When the CAR is derived from an antibody, the resultant cell should combine the desirable targeting features of an antibody (e.g. lack of requirement for major histocompatibility complex recognition, ability to recognize non-protein antigens) with the persistence, trafficking, and effector functions of a T cell. This article describes how the past two decades have seen a crescendo of research which has now begun to translate these potential benefits into effective treatments for patients with cancer. We describe the basic design of CARs, describe how antigenic targets are selected, and the initial clinical experience with CAR-T cells. Our review then describes our own and other investigators work aimed at improving the function of CARs and reviews the clinical studies in hematological and solid malignancies that are beginning to exploit these approaches. Finally, we show the value of adding additional engineering features to CAR-T cells, irrespective of their target, to  render them better suited to function in the tumor environment, and discuss how the safety of these heavily modified cells may be maintained."

"1328. Immunol Rev. 2014 Jan;257(1):91-106. doi: 10.1111/imr.12126.","CAR T cells: driving the road from the laboratory to the clinic.","Blockbuster antibody therapies have catapulted immune-based approaches to treat cancer into the consciousness of mainstay clinical research. On the back of this, other emerging immune-based therapies are providing great promise. T-cell therapy is one such area where recent trials using T cells genetically modified to express an antibody-based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeted against the CD19 antigen have demonstrated impressive responses when adoptively transferred to patients with advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The general concept of the CAR T cell was devised some 20 years ago. In this relatively short period of  time, the technology to redirect T-cell function has moved at pace facilitating clinical translation; however, many questions remain with respect to developing the approach to improve CAR T-cell therapeutic activity and also to broaden the range of tumors that can be effectively targeted by this approach. This review highlights some of the underlying principles and compromises of CAR T-cell technology using the CD19-targeted CAR as a paradigm and discusses some of the issues that relate to targeting solid tumors with CAR T cells."

"1329. Immunol Rev. 2014 Jan;257(1):83-90. doi: 10.1111/imr.12125.","Of CARs and TRUCKs: chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells engineered with an inducible cytokine to modulate the tumor stroma.","Adoptive T-cell therapy recently achieved impressive efficacy in early phase trials, in particular in hematologic malignancies, strongly supporting the notion that the immune system can control cancer. A current strategy of favor is based on ex vivo-engineered patient T cells, which are redirected by a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and recognize a predefined target by an antibody-derived binding domain. Such CAR T cells can substantially reduce the tumor burden as long as the targeted antigen is present on the cancer cells. However, given the tremendous phenotypic diversity in solid tumor lesions, a reasonable number of cancer cells  are not recognized by a given CAR, considerably reducing the therapeutic success. This article reviews a recently described strategy for overcoming this shortcoming of the CAR T-cell therapy by modulating the tumor stroma by a CAR T-cell-secreted transgenic cytokine like interleukin-12 (IL-12). The basic process is that CAR T cells, when activated by their CAR, deposit IL-12 in the targeted tumor lesion, which in turn attracts an innate immune cell response toward those cancer cells that are invisible to CAR T cells. Such TRUCKs, T cells redirected for universal cytokine-mediated killing, exhibited remarkable efficacy against solid tumors with diverse cancer cell phenotypes, suggesting their evaluation in clinical trials."

"1330. Immunotherapy. 2014;6(6):675-8. doi: 10.2217/imt.14.44.","Cancer CARtography: charting out a new approach to cancer immunotherapy.","Evaluation of: Davila ML, Riviere I, Wang X et al. Efficacy and toxicity management of 19-28z CAR T cell therapy in B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Sci. Transl. Med. 6(224), 224ra25 (2014). Recently, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy has entered clinical trials in patients with relapsed  or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 19-28z CAR T cells express a fusion protein comprised of an anti-CD19 mAb fused with CD28 costimulatory and CD3-zeta-chain signaling domains. The current paper demonstrates that administration of 19-28z CAR T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory B-ALL in a Phase I clinical trial has led to 88% of patients undergoing complete  remission. Despite the benefits, CAR T-cell therapy is associated with cytokine release syndrome toxicities. The authors demonstrated criteria to diagnose severe cytokine release syndrome (sCRS) and treated sCRS with either high-dose steroids  or with tocilizumab, an IL-6 receptor-specific mAb. Although both alleviated sCRS, steroid treatment negated the beneficial effects of CAR T-cell therapy, whereas tocilizumab did not. Taken together, CAR T-cell immunotherapy can be used as a safe and effective approach against tumors with known tumor-associated antigens."

"1331. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1139:177-87. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0345-0_16.","Genetic modification of mouse effector and helper T lymphocytes expressing a chimeric antigen receptor.","Genetic modification of primary mouse T cells with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) has emerged as an important tool for optimizing adoptive T cell immunotherapy strategies. However, limitations in current protocols for generating highly pure and sufficient numbers of enriched effector and helper CAR(+) T cell subsets remain problematic. Here, we describe a new retroviral transduction protocol for successfully generating transduced CD8(+) and CD4(+) T  lymphocytes for in vitro and in vivo characterization."

"1332. J Immunother Cancer. 2013 Dec 16;1:21. doi: 10.1186/2051-1426-1-21. eCollection 2013.","Expression of miR-17-92 enhances anti-tumor activity of T-cells transduced with the anti-EGFRvIII chimeric antigen receptor in mice bearing human GBM xenografts.","BACKGROUND: Expression of miR-17-92 enhances T-cell survival and interferon (IFN)-γ production. We previously reported that miR-17-92 is down-regulated in T-cells derived from glioblastoma (GBM) patients. We hypothesized that transgene-derived co-expression of miR17-92 and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) in T-cells would improve the efficacy of adoptive transfer therapy against GBM. METHODS: We constructed novel lentiviral vectors for miR-17-92 (FG12-EF1a-miR-17/92) and a CAR consisting of an epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII)-specific, single-chain variable fragment (scFv) coupled to the T-cell receptor CD3ζ chain signaling module and co-stimulatory motifs of CD137 (4-1BB) and CD28 in tandem (pELNS-3C10-CAR). Human T-cells were transduced  with these lentiviral vectors, and their anti-tumor effects were evaluated both in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: CAR-transduced T-cells (CAR-T-cells) exhibited potent, antigen-specific, cytotoxic activity against U87 GBM cells that stably express EGFRvIII (U87-EGFRvIII) and, when co-transduced with miR-17-92, exhibited improved survival in the presence of temozolomide (TMZ) compared with CAR-T-cells without  miR-17-92 co-transduction. In mice bearing intracranial U87-EGFRvIII xenografts,  CAR-T-cells with or without transgene-derived miR-17-92 expression demonstrated similar levels of therapeutic effect without demonstrating any uncontrolled growth of CAR-T-cells. However, when these mice were re-challenged with U87-EGFRvIII cells in their brains, mice receiving co-transduced CAR-T-cells exhibited improved protection compared with mice treated with CAR-T-cells without miR-17-92 co-transduction. CONCLUSION: These results warrant the development of novel CAR-T-cell strategies  that incorporate miR-17-92 to improve therapeutic potency, especially in patients with GBM."

"1334. Discov Med. 2013 Dec;16(90):295-302.","Advances in chimeric antigen receptor immunotherapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.","Despite the recent advances with targeted therapies in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) remains the only curative option. However, this procedure is associated with significant  morbidity and mortality due to high rates of infection and the toxicity of graft  versus host disease (GVHD). One of the principle aims of cellular immunotherapy is to target the malignant cells without damaging the other tissues of the body.  T lymphocytes offer the opportunity to do this, due to the exquisite specificity  that they exhibit as part of the adaptive immune response. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are lymphocytes that have been genetically modified to express the antigen binding component of an immunoglobulin molecule coupled to T-cell signaling domains. The use of an immunoglobulin molecule eliminates MHC restriction, enabling the same CAR to be used for several different patients and  increasing the feasibility of widespread clinical use. They can be constructed to target a huge range of antigens, allowing the targeting of cancer cells with unprecedented levels of specificity. The addition of co-stimulatory domains to the CAR construct has enhanced the efficacy and durability of these T cells, which are under investigation in several clinical trials. The early results from  these trials have been very encouraging with dramatic responses being observed in heavily pre-treated patients with otherwise poor risk disease."

"1335. Cytotherapy. 2013 Nov;15(11):1406-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2013.06.003. Epub 2013  Aug 28.","Simplified process for the production of anti-CD19-CAR-engineered T cells.","BACKGROUND AIMS: Adoptive immunotherapy with the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells specific for CD19 has shown promising results for the treatment of B-cell lymphomas and leukemia. This therapy involves the transduction of autologous T cells with a viral vector and the subsequent cell expansion. We describe a new, simplified method to produce anti-CD19-CAR T cells. METHODS: T cells were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 paramagnetic beads. After 2 days, the T cells were added to culture bags pre-treated with RetroNectin and loaded with the retroviral anti-CD19 CAR vector. The cells, beads and vector were incubated for 24 h, and a  second transduction was then performed. No spinoculation was used. Cells were then expanded for an additional 9 days. RESULTS: The method was validated through the use of two PBMC products from a patient with B-cell chronic lymphoblastic leukemia and one PBMC product from a healthy subject. The two PBMC products from the patient with B-cell chronic lymphoblastic leukemia contained 11.4% and 12.9% T cells. The manufacturing process led to final products highly enriched in T cells with a mean CD3+ cell content of 98%, a mean expansion of 10.6-fold and a mean transduction efficiency  of 68%. Similar results were obtained from the PBMCs of the first four patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated at our institution. CONCLUSIONS: We developed a simplified, semi-closed system for the initial selection, activation, transduction and expansion of T cells with the use of anti-CD3/anti-CD28 beads and bags to produce autologous anti-CD19 CAR-transduced  T cells to support an ongoing clinical trial."

"1338. Blood. 2013 Oct 31;122(18):3138-48. doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-12-474056. Epub 2013  Sep 12.","T cells expressing CD123-specific chimeric antigen receptors exhibit specific cytolytic effector functions and antitumor effects against human acute myeloid leukemia.","Induction treatments for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have remained largely unchanged for nearly 50 years, and AML remains a disease of poor prognosis. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation can achieve cures in select patients and highlights the susceptibility of AML to donor-derived immunotherapy. The interleukin-3 receptor α chain (CD123) has been identified as a potential immunotherapeutic target because it is overexpressed in AML compared with normal  hematopoietic stem cells. Therefore, we developed 2 chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) containing a CD123-specific single-chain variable fragment, in combination with a CD28 costimulatory domain and CD3-ζ signaling domain, targeting different  epitopes on CD123. CD123-CAR-redirected T cells mediated potent effector activity against CD123+ cell lines as well as primary AML patient samples. CD123 CAR T cells did not eliminate granulocyte/macrophage and erythroid colony formation in  vitro. Additionally, T cells obtained from patients with active AML can be modified to express CD123 CARs and are able to lyse autologous AML blasts in vitro. Finally, CD123 CAR T cells exhibited antileukemic activity in vivo against a xenogeneic model of disseminated AML. These results suggest that CD123 CAR T cells are a promising immunotherapy for the treatment of high-risk AML."

"1339. Blood. 2013 Oct 24;122(17):2965-73. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-06-506741. Epub 2013  Sep 12.","Infusion of donor-derived CD19-redirected virus-specific T cells for B-cell malignancies relapsed after allogeneic stem cell transplant: a phase 1 study."," Autologous T cells expressing a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CD19.CAR) are active against B-cell malignancies, but it is unknown whether allogeneic CD19.CAR T cells are safe or effective. After allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), infused donor-derived virus-specific T cells (VSTs) expand in vivo, persist long term, and display antiviral activity without  inducing graft-vs-host disease; therefore, we determined whether donor VSTs, engineered to express CD19.CAR, retained the characteristics of nonmanipulated allogeneic VSTs while gaining antitumor activity. We treated 8 patients with allogeneic (donor-derived) CD19.CAR-VSTs 3 months to 13 years after HSCT. There were no infusion-related toxicities. VSTs persisted for a median of 8 weeks in blood and up to 9 weeks at disease sites. Objective antitumor activity was evident in 2 of 6 patients with relapsed disease during the period of CD19.CAR-VST persistence, whereas 2 patients who received cells while in remission remain disease free. In 2 of 3 patients with viral reactivation, donor  CD19.CAR-VSTs expanded concomitantly with VSTs. Hence CD19.CAR-VSTs display antitumor activity and, because their number may be increased in the presence of  viral stimuli, earlier treatment post-HSCT (when lymphodepletion is greater and the incidence of viral infection is higher) or planned vaccination with viral antigens may enhance disease control."

"1341. Gene Ther. 2013 Oct;20(10):970-8. doi: 10.1038/gt.2013.19. Epub 2013 May 2.","Specificity redirection by CAR with human VEGFR-1 affinity endows T lymphocytes with tumor-killing ability and anti-angiogenic potency.","Immunotherapy that is based on adoptive transfer of T lymphocytes, which are genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that recognize  tumor-associated antigens, has been demonstrated to be an efficient cancer therapy. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 (VEGFR-1), a vital molecule involved in tumor growth and angiogenesis, has not been targeted by CAR-modified T lymphocytes. In this study, we generated CAR-modified T lymphocytes with human VEGFR-1 specificity (V-1 CAR) by electroporation. V-1 CAR-modified T lymphocytes were demonstrated to elicit lytic cytotoxicity to target cells in a VEGFR-1-dependent manner. The adoptive transfer of V-1 CAR T lymphocytes delayed tumor growth and formation and inhibited pulmonary metastasis in xenograft models and such efficacies were enhanced by cotransfer of T lymphocytes that expressed interleukin-15 (IL-15). Moreover, V-1 CAR-modified T lymphocytes lysed primary endothelial cells and impaired tube formation, in vitro. These data demonstrated the antitumor and anti-angiogenesis ability of V-1 CAR-modified T lymphocytes. Our study provides the rationale for the clinical translation of CAR-modified T lymphocytes with VEGFR-1 specificity."

"1342. Oncoimmunology. 2013 Oct 1;2(10):e26286. Epub 2013 Oct 10.","Blockade of PD-1 immunosuppression boosts CAR T-cell therapy.","The presence of an immunosuppressive microenvironment can limit the full potential of adoptive T cell immunotherapy. However, specific blockade of the PD-1 immunosuppressive pathway can significantly enhance the function of gene-modified T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) leading to enhanced tumor eradication."

"1343. Immunotherapy. 2013 Sep;5(9):927-9. doi: 10.2217/imt.13.92.","Targeting T cells to tumor: exploiting the chimeric antibody receptor.","Adoptive therapy using gene-modified T cells to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is gaining pace in the clinic, particularly in hematological malignancies. Translation into treatment of solid tumors has been slower, not least because of the lack of truly tumor-specific target antigens. Alonso-Camino  et al. describe experiments that further develop the concept of using the therapeutic entity (in this case, the CAR T cell) to screen for functional binding of tumor target cells. This article highlights the potential for the approach, but also underlies some of the key hurdles that remain to be overcome in order to produce a functional antibody-based screening approach that is able to identify novel tumor antigens that can be recognized by CAR T cells."

"1344. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 Aug 16;438(1):84-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.07.030. Epub 2013 Jul 17.","CD19 target-engineered T-cells accumulate at tumor lesions in human B-cell lymphoma xenograft mouse models.","Adoptive T-cell therapy with CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) is promising for treatment of advanced B-cell malignancies. Tumor targeting of CAR-modified T-cells is likely to contribute therapeutic potency; therefore we examined the relationship between the ability of CD19-specific CAR (CD19-CAR)-transduced T-cells to accumulate at CD19(+) tumor lesions, and their ability to provide anti-tumor effects in xenograft mouse models. Normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes, activated with immobilized RetroNectin and anti-CD3 antibodies, were transduced with retroviral vectors that encode CD19-CAR. Expanded CD19-CAR T-cells with a high transgene expression level of about 75% produced IL-2 and IFN-γ in response to CD19, and lysed both Raji and Daudi CD19(+) human B-cell lymphoma cell lines. Furthermore, these cells efficiently accumulated at Raji tumor lesions where they suppressed tumor progression and prolonged survival in tumor-bearing Rag2(-/-)γc(-/-) immunodeficient mice compared to control cohorts. These results show that the ability of CD19-CAR T-cells to home in on tumor lesions is pivotal for their anti-tumor effects in our xenograft models, and therefore may enhance the efficacy of adoptive T-cell therapy for refractory B-cell lymphoma."

"1345. Curr Mol Med. 2013 Aug;13(7):1079-88.","The weal and woe of costimulation in the adoptive therapy of cancer with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T cells.","Adoptive cell therapy has shown impressive efficacy to combat cancer in early phase clinical trials, in particular when T cells engineered to specifically target tumor cells were applied. The patients T cells are genetically equipped with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) which allows them to be redirected in a predefined manner towards virtually any target; by using an antibody-derived domain for binding, CAR T cells can be redirected in a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) dependent and independent fashion. The CAR also provides the stimuli required to induce and maintain T cell activation. Recent clinical data sustain the notion that strong costimulation in conjunction with the primary activation signal is crucial for lasting therapeutic efficacy of CAR T cells. However, costimulation is a double-edged sword and the impact of the individual costimuli to optimize T cell activation is still under debate; some general rules are emerging. The review summarizes how costimulation modulates, improves and prolongs the redirected anti-tumor T cell response and how the same costimulatory signals may contribute to unintended side effects including cytokine storm and  T cell repression. Upcoming strategies to break the activation/repression circle  by using CARs with modified costimulatory signals are also discussed."

"1346. Hum Gene Ther. 2013 Aug;24(8):717-27. doi: 10.1089/hum.2013.075.","Regimen-specific effects of RNA-modified chimeric antigen receptor T cells in mice with advanced leukemia.","Cytotoxic T lymphocytes modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) for adoptive immunotherapy of hematologic malignancies have demonstrated activity in  early phase clinical trials. While T cells bearing stably expressed CARs are efficacious and have potential long-term persistence, temporary expression of a CAR via RNA electroporation is also potentially efficacious in preclinical models. Temporary CAR expression using RNA presents a method of testing CARs clinically with additional safety where there may be concerns about possible chronic on-target, off-tumor toxic effects, as the degradation of RNA ensures complete removal of the CAR over time without relying on suicide induction systems. CD19-directed RNA CAR T cells were tested in vivo for efficacy and comparison to lentiviral vector (LV)-generated stable CAR T cells. We tested the  hypothesis that multiple infusions of RNA CAR T cells preceded by lymphodepleting chemotherapy could mediate improved survival and sustained antitumor responses in a robust leukemia xenograft model. The saturation strategy using rationally designed multiple infusions of RNA CARs based on multiple model iterations approached the efficacy of a stable LV expression method. Two-color imaging revealed that relapse was a locoregional phenomenon in both the temporary and the stable expression models. In marked contrast to stably expressed CARs with retroviral or LV technology, the efficacy of RNA CARs appears independent of the  costimulatory signaling endodomains likely because they more influence proliferation and persistence rather than short-term efficacy. The efficacy of the RNA CAR infusions may approach that of stably expressed CARs, offer theoretically safer initial clinical testing in addition to suicide systems, and  allow for rapid and effective iterative preclinical modeling for the testing of new targets."

"1347. Cancer Gene Ther. 2013 Jul;20(7):386-93. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2013.35. Epub 2013 Jun  21.","Combining CAR T cells and the Bcl-2 family apoptosis inhibitor ABT-737 for treating B-cell malignancy."," B-cell malignancies upregulate the B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family inhibitors of the intrinsic apoptosis pathway, making them therapy resistant. However, small-molecule inhibitors of Bcl-2 family members such as ABT-737 restore a functional apoptosis pathway in cancer cells, and its oral analog ABT-263 (Navitoclax) has entered clinical trials. Gene engineered chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells also show promise in B-cell malignancy, and as they induce apoptosis via the extrinsic pathway, we hypothesized that small-molecule inhibitors of the Bcl-2 family may potentiate the efficacy of CAR T cells by engaging both apoptosis pathways. CAR T cells targeting CD19 were generated from  healthy donors as well as from pre-B-ALL (precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia) patients and tested together with ABT-737 to evaluate apoptosis induction in five B-cell tumor cell lines. The CAR T cells were effective even if the cell lines exhibited different apoptosis resistance profiles, as shown by analyzing the expression of apoptosis inhibitors by PCR and western blot. When combining T-cell and ABT-737 therapy simultaneously, or with ABT-737 as a presensitizer, tumor cell apoptosis was significantly increased. In conclusion, the apoptosis inducer ABT-737 enhanced the efficacy of CAR T cells and could be an interesting drug candidate to potentiate T-cell therapy."

"1348. Cancer Immunol Res. 2013 Jul;1(1):26-31. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0006. Epub 2013 Apr 7.","T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors can cause anaphylaxis in humans.","T cells can be redirected to overcome tolerance to cancer by engineering with integrating vectors to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). In preclinical  models, we have previously shown that transfection of T cells with mRNA coding for a CAR is an alternative strategy that has antitumor efficacy and the potential to evaluate the on-target off-tumor toxicity of new CAR targets safely  due to transient mRNA CAR expression. Here, we report the safety observed in four patients treated with autologous T cells that had been electroporated with mRNA coding for a CAR derived from a murine antibody to human mesothelin. Because of the transient nature of CAR expression on the T cells, subjects in the clinical study were given repeated infusions of the CAR-T cells to assess their safety. One subject developed anaphylaxis and cardiac arrest within minutes of completing the third infusion. Although human anti-mouse immunoglobulin (Ig)G antibodies have been known to develop with CAR-transduced T cells, they have been thought to have no adverse clinical consequences. This is the first description of clinical  anaphylaxis resulting from CAR-modified T cells, most likely through IgE antibodies specific to the CAR. These results indicate that the potential immunogenicity of CARs derived from murine antibodies may be a safety issue for mRNA CARs, especially when administered using an intermittent dosing schedule."

"1349. Cancer Immunol Res. 2013 Jul;1:26-31.","T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors can cause anaphylaxis in humans.","T cells can be redirected to overcome tolerance to cancer by engineering with integrating vectors to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). In preclinical  models, we have previously demonstrated that transfection of T cells with messenger RNA (mRNA) coding for a CAR is an alternative strategy that has antitumor efficacy and the potential to evaluate the on-target off-tumor toxicity of new CAR targets safely due to transient mRNA CAR expression. Here, we report the safety observed in four patients treated with autologous T cells that had been electroporated with mRNA coding for a CAR derived from a murine antibody to  human mesothelin. Due to the transient nature of CAR expression on the T cells, subjects in the clinical study were given repeated infusions of the CAR-T cells in order to assess their safety. One subject developed anaphylaxis and cardiac arrest within minutes of completing the 3rd infusion. Although human anti-mouse IgG antibodies have been known to develop with CAR-transduced T cells, they have  been thought to have no adverse clinical consequences. This is the first description of clinical anaphylaxis resulting from CAR-modified T cells, most likely through IgE antibodies specific to the CAR. These results indicate that the potential immunogenicity of CARs derived from murine antibodies may be a safety issue for mRNA CARs, especially when administered using an intermittent dosing schedule."

"1351. Immunol Cell Biol. 2013 Jul;91(6):435-40. doi: 10.1038/icb.2013.17. Epub 2013 Apr 30.","NKG2D CAR T-cell therapy inhibits the growth of NKG2D ligand heterogeneous tumors.","Tumor heterogeneity presents a substantial barrier to increasing clinical responses mediated by targeted therapies. Broadening the immune response elicited by treatments that target a single antigen is necessary for the elimination of tumor variants that fail to express the targeted antigen. In this study, it is shown that adoptive transfer of T cells bearing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) inhibited the growth of target-expressing and -deficient tumor cells within ovarian and lymphoma tumors. Mice bearing the ID8 ovarian or RMA lymphoma tumors  were treated with T cells transduced with a NKG2D-based CAR (chNKG2D). NKG2D CAR  T-cell therapy protected mice from heterogeneous RMA tumors. Moreover, adoptive transfer of chNKG2D T cells mediated tumor protection against highly heterogeneous ovarian tumors in which 50, 20 or only 7% of tumor cells expressed  significant amounts of NKG2D ligands. CAR T cells did not mediate an in vivo response against tumor cells that did not express sufficient amounts of NKG2D ligands, and the number of ligand-expressing tumor cells correlated with therapeutic efficacy. In addition, tumor-free surviving mice were protected against a tumor re-challenge with NKG2D ligand-negative ovarian tumor cells. These data indicate that NKG2D CAR T-cell treatment can be an effective therapy against heterogeneous tumors and induce tumor-specific immunity against ligand-deficient tumor cells."

"1352. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Jun 15;19(12):3153-64. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0330.  Epub 2013 Apr 25.","Receptor affinity and extracellular domain modifications affect tumor recognition by ROR1-specific chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","PURPOSE: The adoptive transfer of T cells modified to express a chimeric antigen  receptor (CAR) comprised of an extracellular single-chain antibody (scFV) fragment specific for a tumor cell surface molecule, and linked to an intracellular signaling module, has activity in advanced malignancies. The receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 1 (ROR1) is a tumor-associated molecule expressed in prevalent B-lymphoid and epithelial cancers and is absent on normal mature B cells and vital tissues, making it a candidate for CAR T-cell  therapy. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We constructed ROR1-CARs from scFVs with different affinities and containing extracellular IgG4-Fc spacer domains of different lengths, and evaluated the ability of T cells expressing each CAR to recognize ROR1(+) hematopoietic and epithelial tumors in vitro, and to eliminate human mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) engrafted into immunodeficient mice. RESULTS: ROR1-CARs containing a short Hinge-only extracellular spacer conferred superior lysis of ROR1(+) tumor cells and induction of T-cell effector functions  compared with CARs with long Hinge-CH2-CH3 spacers. CARs derived from a higher  affinity scFV conferred maximum T-cell effector function against primary CLL and  ROR1(+) epithelial cancer lines in vitro without inducing activation-induced T-cell death. T cells modified with an optimal ROR1-CAR were equivalently effective as CD19-CAR-modified T cells in mediating regression of JeKo-1 MCL in immunodeficient mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that customizing spacer design and increasing affinity of ROR1-CARs enhances T-cell effector function and recognition of ROR1(+) tumors. T cells modified with an optimized ROR1-CAR have significant antitumor efficacy in a preclinical model in vivo, suggesting they may be useful  to treat ROR1(+) tumors in clinical applications."

"1353. Immunotherapy. 2013 Jun;5(6):577-90. doi: 10.2217/imt.13.37.","Chimeric antigen receptor-redirected T cells display multifunctional capacity and enhanced tumor-specific cytokine secretion upon secondary ligation of chimeric receptor.","AIM: The aim of the current study was to fully elucidate the functions of T cells genetically modified with an erbB2-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). MATERIAL & METHODS: In this study, key functional parameters of CAR T cells were  examined following antigen-specific stimulation of the chimeric anti-erbB2 receptor. RESULTS: Gene-modified T cells produced the cytokines IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, TNF-α and IL-17, and the chemokine RANTES upon CAR ligation. A multifunctional capacity of these CAR T cells was also demonstrated, where 13.7% of cells were found to simultaneously express IFN-γ and CD107a, indicative of cytolytic granule release. In addition, the CAR T cells were able to respond to a greater degree on the second ligation of CAR, which has not been previously shown. IFN-γ secretion  levels were significantly higher on second ligation than those secreted following initial ligation. CAR-expressing T cells were also demonstrated to lyze erbB2-expressing tumor cells in the absence of activity against bystander cells not expressing the erbB2 antigen, thereby demonstrating exquisite specificity. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the specificity of CAR gene-engineered T cells and their capacity to deliver a wide range of functions against tumor cells with an enhanced response capability after initial receptor engagement."

"1354. J Hematol Oncol. 2013 May 9;6:33. doi: 10.1186/1756-8722-6-33.","Chimeric antigen receptor containing ICOS signaling domain mediates specific and  efficient antitumor effect of T cells against EGFRvIII expressing glioma.","BACKGROUND: Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells appears to be a promising immunotherapeutic strategy. CAR combines the specificity of antibody and cytotoxicity of cytotoxic T lymphocytes, enhancing T  cells ability to specifically target antigens and to effectively kill cancer cells. Recent efforts have been made to integrate the costimulatory signals in the CAR to improve the antitumor efficacy. Epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII) is an attractive therapeutic target as it frequently expresses in glioma and many other types of cancers. Our current study aimed to investigate the specific and efficient antitumor effect of T cells modified with  CAR containing inducible costimulator (ICOS) signaling domain. METHODS: A second generation of EGFRvIII/CAR was generated and it contained the EGFRvIII single chain variable fragment, ICOS signaling domain and CD3ζ chain. Lentiviral EGFRvIII/CAR was prepared and human CD3+ T cells were infected by lentivirus encoding EGFRvIII/CAR. The expression of EGFRvIII/CAR on CD3+ T cells  was confirmed by flow cytometry and Western blot. The functions of EGFRvIII/CAR+  T cells were evaluated using in vitro and in vivo methods including cytotoxicity  assay, cytokine release assay and xenograft tumor mouse model. RESULTS: Chimeric EGFRvIIIscFv-ICOS-CD3ζ (EGFRvIII/CAR) was constructed and lentiviral EGFRvIII/CAR were made to titer of 106 TU/ml. The transduction efficiency of lentiviral EGFRvIII/CAR on T cells reached around 70% and expression of EGFRvIII/CAR protein was verified by immunoblotting as a band of about 57 kDa. Four hour 51Cr release assays demonstrated specific and efficient cytotoxicity of EGFRvIII/CAR+ T cells against EGFRvIII expressing U87 cells. A robust increase in the IFN-γ secretion was detected in the co-culture supernatant of the EGFRvIII/CAR+ T cells and the EGFRvIII expressing U87 cells. Intravenous and intratumor injection of EGFRvIII/CAR+ T cells inhibited the in vivo growth of the EGFRvIII expressing glioma cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that the EGFRvIII/CAR-modified T cells can destroy glioma cells efficiently in an EGFRvIII specific manner and release IFN-γ in an antigen dependent manner. The specific recognition and effective killing activity of the EGFRvIII-directed T cells with ICOS signaling domain lays a foundation for us to employ such approach in future cancer treatment."

"1355. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2013 May;10(5):267-76. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2013.46. Epub 2013 Apr 2.","Treating B-cell cancer with T cells expressing anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors.","Most B-cell malignancies express CD19, and a majority of patients with B-cell malignancies are not cured by current standard therapies. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are fusion proteins consisting of antigen recognition moieties and T-cell activation domains. T cells can be genetically modified to express CARs, and adoptive transfer of anti-CD19 CAR T cells is now being tested in clinical trials. Effective clinical treatment with anti-CD19 CAR T cells was first reported in 2010 after a patient with advanced-stage lymphoma treated at the NCI experienced a partial remission of lymphoma and long-term eradication of  normal B cells. Additional patients have subsequently obtained long-term remissions of advanced-stage B-cell malignancies after infusions of anti-CD19 CAR T cells. Long-term eradication of normal CD19(+) B cells from patients receiving  infusions of anti-CD19 CAR T cells demonstrates the potent antigen-specific activity of these T cells. Some patients treated with anti-CD19 CAR T cells have  experienced acute adverse effects, which were associated with increased levels of serum inflammatory cytokines. Although anti-CD19 CAR T cells are at an early stage of development, the potent antigen-specific activity observed in patients suggests that infusions of anti-CD19 CAR T cells might become a standard therapy  for some B-cell malignancies."

"1356. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Apr 15;19(8):1917-9. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0168. Epub 2013 Feb 26.","Zoom Zoom: racing CARs for multiple myeloma.","Chimeric antigen receptors redirect T cells to surface antigens. Discovery and validation of appropriate target antigens expand the possible indications for chimeric-antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells. B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) is expressed only on mature B cells and plasma cells and promotes their survival. BCMA is a promising target for CAR-T cells in multiple myeloma."

"1357. Mol Ther. 2013 Apr;21(4):904-12. doi: 10.1038/mt.2013.17. Epub 2013 Feb 19.","Treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with CAIX CAR-engineered T cells: clinical evaluation and management of on-target toxicity.","Autologous T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antibody receptor (CAR) against carboxy-anhydrase-IX (CAIX) were administered to 12 patients with CAIX-expressing metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Patients were treated in three cohorts with a maximum of 10 infusions of a total of 0.2 to 2.1 × 10(9) CAR T cells. CTC grade 2-4 liver enzyme disturbances occurred at the lowest CAR T cell doses, necessitating cessation of treatment in four out of eight patients in cohorts 1 and 2. Examination of liver biopsies revealed CAIX expression on bile duct epithelium with infiltration of T cells, including CAR T cells. Subsequently four patients were pre-treated with CAIX monoclonal antibody (mAb) G250 to prevent CAR-specific toxicity and showed no liver toxicities and indications for  enhanced peripheral T cell persistence. No clinical responses were recorded. This report shows that CAIX-targeting CAR T cells exerted antigen-specific effects in  vivo and induced liver toxicity at the lowest dose of 0.2 × 10(9) T cells applied, illustrating the potency of receptor-modified T cells. We provide in-patient proof that the observed on-target toxicity is antigen-directed and can be prevented by blocking antigenic sites in off-tumor organs and allowing higher T cell doses."

"1358. Transl Res. 2013 Apr;161(4):265-83. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2012.12.005. Epub 2013 Jan 10.","Evaluating risks of insertional mutagenesis by DNA transposons in gene therapy.","Investigational therapy can be successfully undertaken using viral- and nonviral-mediated ex vivo gene transfer. Indeed, recent clinical trials have established the potential for genetically modified T cells to improve and restore health. Recently, the Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon/transposase system has been applied in clinical trials to stably insert a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to  redirect T-cell specificity. We discuss the context in which the SB system can be harnessed for gene therapy and describe the human application of SB-modified CAR(+) T cells. We have focused on theoretical issues relating to insertional mutagenesis in the context of human genomes that are naturally subjected to remobilization of transposons and the experimental evidence over the last decade  of employing SB transposons for defining genes that induce cancer. These findings are put into the context of the use of SB transposons in the treatment of human disease."

"1359. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2013 Mar;8(1):60-70. doi: 10.1007/s11899-012-0145-y.","CARs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia -- ready to drive.","Adoptive transfer of antigen-specific T cells has been adapted by investigators for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). To overcome issues of immune tolerance which limits the endogenous adaptive immune response to tumor-associated antigens (TAAs), robust systems for the genetic modification and characterization of T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to redirect specificity have been produced. Refinements with regards to persistence  and trafficking of the genetically modified T cells are underway to help improve  potency. Clinical trials utilizing this technology demonstrate feasibility, and increasingly, these early-phase trials are demonstrating impressive anti-tumor effects, particularly for CLL patients, paving the way for multi-center trials to establish the efficacy of CAR(+) T cell therapy."

"1360. Hum Gene Ther. 2013 Mar;24(3):295-305. doi: 10.1089/hum.2012.143. Epub 2013 Mar 1.","Chimeric NKG2D CAR-expressing T cell-mediated attack of human ovarian cancer is enhanced by histone deacetylase inhibition.","NKG2D ligands (NKG2DLs) are widely expressed on ovarian cancers to various degrees, making them attractive targets for immunotherapy. Here, we applied a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) approach for the targeting of NKG2DLs expressed on human ovarian cancer cells and evaluated the impact of pharmacological upregulation of NKG2DLs on immune recognition. Various NKG2DLs, including MICA/B  and ULBP-1, -2, -3, and -4, were expressed at various levels on the surface of all established ovarian cancer cell lines and primary ovarian cancer samples tested. To redirect human T cells against NKG2DLs, an NKG2DL-specific CAR was generated by fusing the extracellular domain of the NKG2D receptor to the 4-1BB costimulatory and CD3-ζ chain signaling domains. In vitro expansion of chimeric NKG2D CAR T cells was delayed compared with untransduced T cells and control CAR  T cells; the likely result of fratricide among activated T cells expressing NKG2DLs. However, NKG2D CAR T cells did expand and were selectively enriched during prolonged culture. In coculture, CD4(+) and CD8(+) NKG2D CAR T cells specifically recognized and killed NKG2DL-expressing ovarian cancer cell lines but not NKG2DL-negative cells. Notably, pretreatment of ovarian cancer cells expressing moderate to low levels of NKG2DLs with the histone deacetylase inhibitor sodium valproate (VPA) upregulated NKG2DL cell surface expression and consequently enhanced their immune recognition by chimeric NKG2D CAR T cells. Our results demonstrate that VPA-induced upregulation of NKG2DL expression enhances the immune recognition of ovarian cancer cells by engineered NKG2D CAR T cells, and rationalizes the use of VPA in combination with NKG2DL-targeted immunotherapy in ovarian cancer."

"1361. J Vis Exp. 2013 Feb 2;(72):e50058. doi: 10.3791/50058.","Quantitative high-throughput single-cell cytotoxicity assay for T cells.","Cancer immunotherapy can harness the specificity of immune response to target and eliminate tumors. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) based on the adoptive transfer of T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown considerable promise in clinical trials(1-4). There are several advantages to using CAR(+) T cells for the treatment of cancers including the ability to target non-MHC restricted antigens and to functionalize the T cells for optimal survival, homing and persistence within the host; and finally to induce apoptosis of CAR(+) T cells in the event of host toxicity(5). Delineating the optimal functions of CAR(+) T cells associated with clinical benefit is essential for designing the next generation of clinical trials. Recent advances in live animal  imaging like multiphoton microscopy have revolutionized the study of immune cell  function in vivo(6,7). While these studies have advanced our understanding of T-cell functions in vivo, T-cell based ACT in clinical trials requires the need to link molecular and functional features of T-cell preparations pre-infusion with clinical efficacy post-infusion, by utilizing in vitro assays monitoring T-cell functions like, cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion. Standard flow-cytometry based assays have been developed that determine the overall functioning of populations of T cells at the single-cell level but these are not  suitable for monitoring conjugate formation and lifetimes or the ability of the same cell to kill multiple targets(8). Microfabricated arrays designed in biocompatible polymers like polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) are a particularly attractive method to spatially confine effectors and targets in small volumes(9). In combination with automated time-lapse fluorescence microscopy, thousands of effector-target interactions can be monitored simultaneously by imaging individual wells of a nanowell array. We present here a high-throughput methodology for monitoring T-cell mediated cytotoxicity at the single-cell level  that can be broadly applied to studying the cytolytic functionality of T cells."

"1362. J Immunother. 2013 Feb;36(2):112-23. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182811ce9.","Sleeping beauty system to redirect T-cell specificity for human applications.","The Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon/transposase DNA plasmid system is used to genetically modify cells for long-term transgene expression. We adapted the SB system for human application and generated T cells expressing a chimeric antigen  receptor (CAR) specific for CD19. Electrotransfer of CD19-specific SB DNA plasmids in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and propagation on CD19 artificial antigen presenting cells was used to numerically expand CD3 T cells expressing CAR. By day 28 of coculture, >90% of expanded CD3 T cells expressed CAR. CAR T cells specifically killed CD19 target cells and consisted of subsets expressing biomarkers consistent with central memory, effector memory, and effector phenotypes. CAR T cells contracted numerically in the absence of the CD19 antigen, did not express SB11 transposase, and maintained a polyclonal TCR Vα and TCR Vβ repertoire. Quantitative fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that  CAR T cells preserved the telomere length. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization showed CAR transposon integrated on average once per T-cell genome. CAR T cells in peripheral blood can be detected by quantitative polymerase chain reaction at a sensitivity of 0.01%. These findings lay the groundwork as the basis of our first-in-human clinical trials of the nonviral SB system for the investigational treatment of CD19 B-cell malignancies (currently under 3 INDs: 14193, 14577, and 14739)."

"1363. J Vis Exp. 2013 Feb 1;(72):e50070. doi: 10.3791/50070.","Clinical application of Sleeping Beauty and artificial antigen presenting cells to genetically modify T cells from peripheral and umbilical cord blood.","The potency of clinical-grade T cells can be improved by combining gene therapy with immunotherapy to engineer a biologic product with the potential for superior (i) recognition of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs), (ii) persistence after infusion, (iii) potential for migration to tumor sites, and (iv) ability to recycle effector functions within the tumor microenvironment. Most approaches to  genetic manipulation of T cells engineered for human application have used retrovirus and lentivirus for the stable expression of CAR(1-3). This approach, although compliant with current good manufacturing practice (GMP), can be expensive as it relies on the manufacture and release of clinical-grade recombinant virus from a limited number of production facilities. The electro-transfer of nonviral plasmids is an appealing alternative to transduction since DNA species can be produced to clinical grade at approximately 1/10(th) the cost of recombinant GMP-grade virus. To improve the efficiency of integration we  adapted Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon and transposase for human application(4-8). Our SB system uses two DNA plasmids that consist of a transposon coding for a gene of interest (e.g. 2(nd) generation CD19-specific CAR transgene, designated CD19RCD28) and a transposase (e.g. SB11) which inserts the  transgene into TA dinucleotide repeats(9-11). To generate clinically-sufficient numbers of genetically modified T cells we use K562-derived artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPC) (clone #4) modified to express a TAA (e.g. CD19) as well  as the T cell costimulatory molecules CD86, CD137L, a membrane-bound version of interleukin (IL)-15 (peptide fused to modified IgG4 Fc region) and CD64 (Fc-γ receptor 1) for the loading of monoclonal antibodies (mAb)(12). In this report, we demonstrate the procedures that can be undertaken in compliance with cGMP to generate CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells suitable for human application. This was achieved by the synchronous electro-transfer of two DNA plasmids, a SB transposon (CD19RCD28) and a SB transposase (SB11) followed by retrieval of stable integrants by the every-7-day additions (stimulation cycle) of γ-irradiated aAPC  (clone #4) in the presence of soluble recombinant human IL-2 and IL-21(13). Typically 4 cycles (28 days of continuous culture) are undertaken to generate clinically-appealing numbers of T cells that stably express the CAR. This methodology to manufacturing clinical-grade CD19-specific T cells can be applied  to T cells derived from peripheral blood (PB) or umbilical cord blood (UCB). Furthermore, this approach can be harnessed to generate T cells to diverse tumor  types by pairing the specificity of the introduced CAR with expression of the TAA, recognized by the CAR, on the aAPC."

"1365. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e57838. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057838. Epub 2013 Mar 1.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-specific monoclonal antibody to detect CD19-specific T cells in clinical trials.","Clinical trials targeting CD19 on B-cell malignancies are underway with encouraging anti-tumor responses. Most infuse T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) with specificity derived from the scFv  region of a CD19-specific mouse monoclonal antibody (mAb, clone FMC63). We describe a novel anti-idiotype monoclonal antibody (mAb) to detect CD19-specific  CAR(+) T cells before and after their adoptive transfer. This mouse mAb was generated by immunizing with a cellular vaccine expressing the antigen-recognition domain of FMC63. The specificity of the mAb (clone no. 136.20.1) was confined to the scFv region of the CAR as validated by inhibiting CAR-dependent lysis of CD19(+) tumor targets. This clone can be used to detect CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells at a sensitivity of 1∶1,000. In clinical settings the mAb is used to inform on the immunophenotype and persistence of administered CD19-specific T cells. Thus, our  CD19-specific CAR mAb (clone no. 136.20.1) will be useful to investigators implementing CD19-specific CAR(+) T cells to treat B-lineage malignancies. The methodology described to develop a CAR-specific anti-idiotypic mAb could be extended to other gene therapy trials targeting different tumor associated antigens in the context of CAR-based adoptive T-cell therapy."

"1366. Clin Cancer Res. 2012 Dec 1;18(23):6436-45. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-1449. Epub 2012 Oct 2.","Redirecting gene-modified T cells toward various cancer types using tagged antibodies."," PURPOSE: To develop an adaptable gene-based vector that will confer immune cell specificity to various cancer types. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Human and mouse T cells were genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that binds a fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) molecule, termed anti-FITC CAR T cells. Various antibodies (Ab) currently  in clinical use including cetuximab (Ctx), trastuzumab (Her2), and rituximab (Rtx) were conjugated with FITC and tested for their ability to bind tumor cells, activate T cells, and induce antitumor effects in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: Anti-FITC CAR T cells recognize various cancer types when bound with FITC-labeled Abs resulting in efficient target lysis, T-cell proliferation, and cytokine/chemokine production. The treatment of immunocompromised mice with human anti-FITC CAR T cells plus FITC-labeled cetuximab (FITC-Ctx) delayed the growth of colon cancer but unexpectedly led to the outgrowth of EGF receptor (EGFR)-negative tumor cells. On the other hand, in a human pancreatic cancer cell line with uniform EGFR expression, anti-FITC CAR T cells plus FITC-Ctx eradicated preestablished late-stage tumors. In immunocompetent mice, anti-FITC CAR T cells  exhibited potent antitumor activity against syngeneic mouse breast cancer expressing Her2 and B-cell lymphoma expressing CD20 by combining with FITC-Her2 and FITC-Rtx, respectively. In addition, the activity of anti-FITC CAR T cells could be attenuated by subsequent injections of nonspecific FITC-IgG. CONCLUSION: These studies highlight an applicability of anti-tag CAR technology to treat patients with different types of cancers and a possibility to regulate CAR T-cell functions with competing FITC molecules."

"1367. Gastroenterology. 2012 Oct;143(4):1095-107.e2. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.06.037. Epub 2012 Jun 27.","T cells that target carcinoembryonic antigen eradicate orthotopic pancreatic carcinomas without inducing autoimmune colitis in mice.","BACKGROUND & AIMS: New treatment approaches are needed for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is highly expressed on  the surface of pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells; we investigated the effects of cytolytic T cells that recognize CEA in a mouse model of pancreatic carcinoma. METHODS: Immune-competent mice that expressed the CEA transgene (CEAtg) in the intestinal and pulmonary tracts were given intrapancreatic injections of Panc02 CEA(+) cells (express CEA and click beetle luciferase) and tumors were grown for  10 days. Mice were then given single intravenous injections of T cells engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) with high specificity, but moderate  affinity, for CEA and a luminescence marker. RESULTS: Injection of the anti-CEA CAR T cells reduced the size of pancreatic tumors to below the limit of detection in all mice and produced long-term tumor eradication in 67% of mice. T cells also eradicated CEA(+) fibrosarcoma cells injected 45 days later. Bioluminescence imaging revealed the accumulation and persistence of the T cells at the tumor site. The efficacy of the T cells did not require lymphodepletion and was not reduced by soluble CEA. Mice developed some noninflammatory infiltrations of CAR(+) T cells in intestine and lung, but there  was no evidence of destruction of CEA(+) healthy tissues. CONCLUSIONS: Injection of T cells that target CEA can eradicate tumors grown from CEA(+) pancreatic carcinoma cells in the pancreas of CEAtg mice without autoimmune effects."

"1368. J Transl Med. 2012 Aug 3;10:157. doi: 10.1186/1479-5876-10-157.","A phase I clinical trial of adoptive transfer of folate receptor-alpha redirected autologous T cells for recurrent ovarian cancer.","PURPOSE: In spite of increased rates of complete response to initial chemotherapy, most patients with advanced ovarian cancer relapse and succumb to progressive disease. RATIONALE: Genetically reprogrammed, patient-derived chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T lymphocytes with the ability to recognize predefined surface antigens with high specificity in a non-MHC restricted manner have shown increasing anti-tumor efficacy in preclinical and clinical studies. Folate receptor-α (FRα)  is an ovarian cancer-specific tumor target; however, it is expressed at low levels in certain organs with risk for toxicity. DESIGN: Here we propose a phase I study testing the feasibility, safety and preliminary activity of FRα-redirected CAR-T cells bearing the CD137 (4-1BB) costimulatory domain, administered after lymphodepletion for the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer. A novel trial design is proposed that maximizes safety  features. INNOVATION: This design involves an initial accelerated dose escalation phase of  FR-α CAR-T cells followed by a standard 3 + 3 escalation phase. A split-dose approach is proposed to mitigate acute adverse events. Furthermore, infusion of bulk untransduced autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) is proposed two days after CAR-T cell infusion at the lower dose levels of CAR-T cells, to suppress excessive expansion of CAR-T cells in vivo and mitigate toxicity."

"1369. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2012 Aug;61(8):1269-77. doi: 10.1007/s00262-012-1202-z. Epub 2012 Jan 25.","CAR T cells transform to trucks: chimeric antigen receptor-redirected T cells engineered to deliver inducible IL-12 modulate the tumour stroma to combat cancer.","Adoptive T cell therapy recently achieved impressive efficacy in early-phase clinical trials; this significantly raises the profile of immunotherapy in the fight against cancer. A broad variety of tumour cells can specifically be targeted by patients T cells, which are redirected in an antibody-defined, major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted fashion by endowing them with a chimeric  antigen receptor (CAR). Despite promising results for some haematologic malignancies, the stroma of large, established tumours, the broad plethora of infiltrating repressor cells, and cancer cell variants that had lost the target antigen limit their therapeutic efficacy in the long term. This article reviews a newly described strategy for overcoming some of these shortcomings by engineering CAR T cells with inducible or constitutive release of IL-12. Once redirected, these T cells are activated, and released IL-12 accumulates in the tumour lesion  where it promotes tumour destruction by at least two mechanisms: (1) induction of an innate immune cell response towards those cancer cells which are invisible to  redirected T cells and (2) triggering programmatic changes in immune-suppressive  cells. Given the enormous complexity of both tumour progression and immune attack, the upcoming strategies using CAR-redirected T cells for local delivery of immune-modulating payloads exhibited remarkable efficacy in pre-clinical models, suggesting their evaluation in clinical trials."

"1370. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2012 Jul;61(7):953-62. doi: 10.1007/s00262-012-1254-0. Epub 2012 Apr 22.","Targeted immunotherapy of cancer with CAR T cells: achievements and challenges.","The adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-expressing T cells is a  relatively new but promising approach in the field of cancer immunotherapy. This  therapeutic strategy is based on the genetic reprogramming of T cells with an artificial immune receptor that redirects them against targets on malignant cells and enables their destruction by exerting T cell effector functions. There has been an explosion of interest in the use of CAR T cells as an immunotherapy for cancer. In the pre-clinical setting, there has been a considerable focus upon optimizing the structural and signaling potency of the CAR while advances in bio-processing technology now mean that the clinical testing of these gene-modified T cells has become a reality. This review will summarize the concept of CAR-based immunotherapy and recent clinical trial activity and will further discuss some of the likely future challenges facing CAR-modified T cell therapies."

"1371. Trends Mol Med. 2012 Jul;18(7):377-84. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2012.04.009. Epub 2012 May 19.","CAR-T cells and solid tumors: tuning T cells to challenge an inveterate foe.","Recent reports on the impressive efficacy of adoptively transferred T cells to challenge cancer in early phase clinical trials have significantly raised the profile of T cell therapy. Concomitantly, general expectations are also raised by these reports, with the natural aspiration to deliver this therapy over a wide range of tumor indications. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) endow T cell populations with defined antigen specificities that function independently of the natural T cell receptor and permit targeting of T cells towards virtually any tumor. Here, we review the current clinical application of CAR-T cells and relate clinical efficacy and safety of CAR-T cell trials to parameters considered critical for CAR engineering, classified as the three Ts of CAR-T cell manipulation."

"1372. J Immunol. 2012 Jun 15;188(12):6389-98. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1103019. Epub 2012  May 14.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells shape myeloid cell function within the tumor microenvironment through IFN-γ and GM-CSF."," The infiltration of suppressive myeloid cells into the tumor microenvironment restrains anti-tumor immunity. However, cytokines may alter the function of myeloid lineage cells to support tumor rejection, regulating the balance between  pro- and anti-tumor immunity. In this study, it is shown that effector cytokines  secreted by adoptively transferred T cells expressing a chimeric Ag receptor (CAR) shape the function of myeloid cells to promote endogenous immunity and tumor destruction. Mice bearing the ovarian ID8 tumor were treated with T cells transduced with a chimeric NKG2D receptor. GM-CSF secreted by the adoptively transferred T cells recruited peripheral F4/80(lo)Ly-6C(+) myeloid cells to the tumor microenvironment in a CCR2-dependent fashion. T cell IFN-γ and GM-CSF activated local, tumor-associated macrophages, decreased expression of regulatory factors, increased IL-12p40 production, and augmented Ag processing and presentation by host macrophages to Ag-specific T cells. In addition, T cell-derived IFN-γ, but not GM-CSF, induced the production of NO by F4/80(hi) macrophages and enhanced their lysis of tumor cells. The ability of CAR T cell therapy to eliminate tumor was moderately impaired when inducible NO synthase was inhibited and greatly impaired in the absence of peritoneal macrophages after depletion with clodronate encapsulated liposomes. This study demonstrates that the activation of host macrophages by CAR T cell-derived cytokines transformed the tumor microenvironment from immunosuppressive to immunostimulatory and contributed to inhibition of ovarian tumor growth."

"1376. Hum Gene Ther. 2012 May;23(5):444-50. doi: 10.1089/hum.2011.167. Epub 2012 Jan 17.","Infusing CD19-directed T cells to augment disease control in patients undergoing  autologous hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation for advanced B-lymphoid malignancies.","Limited curative treatment options exist for patients with advanced B-lymphoid malignancies, and new therapeutic approaches are needed to augment the efficacy of hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT). Cellular therapies, such as adoptive transfer of T cells that are being evaluated to target malignant disease, use mechanisms independent of chemo- and radiotherapy with nonoverlapping toxicities. Gene therapy is employed to generate tumor-specific T  cells, as specificity can be redirected through enforced expression of a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to achieve antigen recognition based on the specificity of a monoclonal antibody. By combining cell and gene therapies, we have opened a new Phase I protocol at the MD Anderson Cancer Center (Houston, TX) to examine the safety and feasibility of administering autologous genetically modified T cells expressing a CD19-specific CAR (capable of signaling through chimeric CD28 and CD3-ζ) into patients with high-risk B-lymphoid malignancies undergoing autologous HSCT. The T cells are genetically modified by nonviral gene transfer of the Sleeping Beauty system and CAR(+) T cells selectively propagated in a CAR-dependent manner on designer artificial antigen-presenting cells. The results of this study will lay the foundation for future protocols including CAR(+) T-cell infusions derived from allogeneic sources."

"1377. Mol Ther. 2012 Mar;20(3):633-43. doi: 10.1038/mt.2011.256. Epub 2011 Nov 29.","Redirected antitumor activity of primary human lymphocytes transduced with a fully human anti-mesothelin chimeric receptor.","Cancer regression by gene-modified T cells bearing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) exodomain of mouse origin can be limited by the induction of transgene immunogenicity resulting in poor persistence and function in vivo. The development of functionally-active CAR of human origin can address this issue. Here, we constructed and evaluated fully human anti-mesothelin CARs comprised of  a human mesothelin-specific single-chain antibody variable fragment (P4 scFv) coupled to T cell signaling domains. Primary human T cells expressing P4 CAR specifically produced proinflammatory cytokines, degranulated and exerted potent  cytolytic functions when cultured with mesothelin-expressing tumors in vitro. P4  CAR T cells also mediated bystander killing of mesothelin-negative cancer cells during coculture. CAR reactivity was not abrogated by soluble tumor-secreted or recombinant mesothelin protein even at supraphysiological levels. Importantly, adoptive transfer of P4 CAR-expressing T cells mediated the regression of large,  established tumor in the presence of soluble mesothelin in a xenogenic model of human ovarian cancer. Thus, primary human T cells expressing fully human anti-mesothelin CAR efficiently kill mesothelin-expressing tumors in vitro and in vivo and have the potential to overcome the issue of transgene immunogenicity that may limit CAR T cell trials that utilize scFvs of mouse origin."

"1378. Blood. 2012 Jan 19;119(3):696-706. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-03-344275. Epub 2011 Nov 23.","CD27 costimulation augments the survival and antitumor activity of redirected human T cells in vivo.","The costimulatory effects of CD27 on T lymphocyte effector function and memory formation has been confined to evaluations in mouse models, in vitro human cell culture systems, and clinical observations. Here, we tested whether CD27 costimulation actively enhances human T-cell function, expansion, and survival in vitro and in vivo. Human T cells transduced to express an antigen-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) containing an intracellular CD3 zeta (CD3ζ) chain signaling module with the CD27 costimulatory motif in tandem exerted increased antigen-stimulated effector functions in vitro, including cytokine secretion and cytotoxicity, compared with CAR-T with CD3ζ alone. After antigen stimulation in vitro, CD27-bearing CAR-T cells also proliferated, up-regulated Bcl-X(L) protein expression, resisted apoptosis, and underwent increased numerical expansion. The greatest impact of CD27 was noted in vivo, where transferred CAR-T cells with CD27 demonstrated heightened persistence after infusion, facilitating improved regression of human cancer in a xenogeneic allograft model. This tumor regression was similar to that achieved with CD28- or 4-1BB-costimulated CARs, and heightened persistence was similar to 4-1BB but greater than CD28. Thus, CD27 costimulation enhances expansion, effector function, and survival of human CAR-T cells in vitro and augments human T-cell persistence and antitumor activity in vivo."

"1379. Cancer Res. 2012 Jan 1;72(1):271-81. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-2778. Epub 2011 Nov 10.","Genetically modified T cells targeting interleukin-11 receptor α-chain kill human osteosarcoma cells and induce the regression of established osteosarcoma lung metastases.","The treatment of osteosarcoma pulmonary metastases remains a challenge. T cells genetically modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), which recognizes a tumor-associated antigen, have shown activity against hematopoietic  malignancies in clinical trials, but this requires the identification of a specific receptor on the tumor cell. In the current study, we found that interleukin (IL)-11Rα was selectively expressed on 14 of 16 osteosarcoma patients lung metastases and four different human osteosarcoma cell lines, indicating that IL-11Rα may be a novel target for CAR-specific T-cell therapy. IL-11Rα expression was absent or low in normal organ tissues, with the exception  of the gastrointestinal tract. IL-11Rα-CAR-specific T cells were obtained by non-viral gene transfer of Sleeping Beauty DNA plasmids and selectively expanded  ex vivo using artificial antigen-presenting cells derived from IL-11Rα + K562 cells genetically modified to coexpress T-cell costimulatory molecules. IL-11Rα-CAR(+) T cells killed all four osteosarcoma cell lines in vitro; cytotoxicity correlated with the level of IL-11Rα expression on the tumor cells.  Intravenous injection of IL-11Rα-CAR(+) T cells into mice resulted in the regression of osteosarcoma pulmonary metastases with no organ toxicity. Together, the data suggest that IL-11Rα-CAR T cells may represent a new therapy for patients with osteosarcoma pulmonary metastases."

"1380. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;907:645-66. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-974-7_36.","Chimeric antigen receptors for T-cell based therapy.","The Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) consists of an antibody-derived targeting domain fused with T-cell signaling domains that, when expressed by a T-cell, endows the T-cell with antigen specificity determined by the targeting domain of  the CAR. CARs can potentially redirect the effector functions of a T-cell towards any protein and nonprotein target expressed on the cell surface as long as an antibody or similar targeting domain is available. This strategy thereby avoids the requirement of antigen processing and presentation by the target cell and is  applicable to nonclassical T-cell targets like carbohydrates. This circumvention  of HLA-restriction means that the CAR T-cell approach can be used as a generic tool broadening the potential of applicability of adoptive T-cell therapy. Proof-of-principle studies focusing upon the investigation of the potency of CAR  T-cells have primarily focused upon the genetic modification of human and mouse T-cells for therapy. This chapter focuses upon methods to modify T-cells from both species to generate CAR T-cells for functional testing."

"1381. Blood. 2011 Dec 1;118(23):6050-6. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-05-354449. Epub 2011 Oct 7.","Antitumor activity and long-term fate of chimeric antigen receptor-positive T cells in patients with neuroblastoma.","We generated MHC-independent chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) directed to the GD2 antigen expressed by neuroblastoma tumor cells and treated patients with this disease. Two distinguishable forms of this CAR were expressed in EBV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (EBV-CTLs) and activated T cells (ATCs). We have previously shown that EBV-CTLs expressing GD2-CARs (CAR-CTLs) circulated at higher levels than GD2-CAR ATCs (CAR-ATCs) early after infusion, but by 6 weeks,  both subsets became low or undetectable. We now report the long-term clinical and immunologic consequences of infusions in 19 patients with high-risk neuroblastoma: 8 in remission at infusion and 11 with active disease. Three of 11 patients with active disease achieved complete remission, and persistence of either CAR-ATCs or CAR-CTLs beyond 6 weeks was associated with superior clinical  outcome. We observed persistence for up to 192 weeks for CAR-ATCs and 96 weeks for CAR-CTLs, and duration of persistence was highly concordant with the percentage of CD4(+) cells and central memory cells (CD45RO(+)CD62L(+)) in the infused product. In conclusion, GD2-CAR T cells can induce complete tumor responses in patients with active neuroblastoma; these CAR T cells may have extended, low-level persistence in patients, and such persistence was associated  with longer survival. This study is registered at www.clinialtrials.gov as #NCT00085930."

"1382. Hum Gene Ther. 2011 Dec;22(12):1575-86. doi: 10.1089/hum.2011.070. Epub 2011 Sep  23.","Treatment of advanced leukemia in mice with mRNA engineered T cells.","Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) for adoptive immunotherapy of hematologic malignancies are effective in preclinical models and are being tested in several clinical trials. Although CTLs bearing stably expressed CARs generated by integrating viral vectors are efficacious and have potential long-term persistence, this mechanism of CAR expression can potentially result in significant toxicity. T cells were electroporated with an optimized in vitro transcribed RNA encoding a CAR against  CD19. These RNA CAR CTLs were then tested in vitro and in vivo for efficacy. We found that T cells expressing an anti-CD19 CAR introduced by electroporation with optimized mRNA were potent and specific killers of CD19 target cells. CD19 RNA CAR T cells given to immunodeficient mice bearing xenografted leukemia rapidly migrated to sites of disease and retained significant target-specific lytic activity. Unexpectedly, a single injection of CD19 RNA CAR T cells reduced disease burden within 1 day after administration, resulting in a significant prolongation of survival in an aggressive leukemia xenograft model. The surface expression of the RNA CARs may be titrated, giving T cells with potentially tunable levels of effector functions such as cytokine release and cytotoxicity. RNA CARs are a genetic engineering approach that should not be subject to genotoxicity, and they provide a platform for rapidly optimizing CAR design before proceeding to more costly and laborious stable expression systems."

"1383. Immunotherapy. 2011 Dec;3(12):1441-3. doi: 10.2217/imt.11.135.","Optimizing tumor-targeting chimeric antigen receptor T cells in B-cell lymphoma patients.","Evaluation of: Savoldo B, Ramos CA, Liu E et al. CD28 costimulation improves expansion and persistence of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells in lymphoma patients. J. Clin. Invest. 121(5), 1822-1826 (2011). Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells are promising antitumor immunotherapies. However, there are limited reports of persistence, tumor-homing and clinical efficacy in cancer  patients. Savoldo and colleagues used a novel approach to compare the use of first- and second-generation tumor-specific CAR-T cells in six B-cell lymphoma patients. They provide one of the first comparisons in human subjects and demonstrate the superiority of second-generation CAR-T cells to expand, survive and home to the tumor site."

"1385. Cancer Res. 2011 Sep 1;71(17):5697-706. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0103. Epub  2011 Jul 8.","IL-12 release by engineered T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors can effectively Muster an antigen-independent macrophage response on tumor cells that have shut down tumor antigen expression.","During malignant progression cancer cells tend to lose cell surface expression of MHC and other immune antigens, making them invisible to cytotoxic T cells and therefore inaccessible to tumor antigen-directed immunotherapy. Moreover, cancer  cell variants that have lost antigen expression frequently contribute to deadly tumor relapses that occur following treatments that had been initially effective. In an effort to destroy antigen-loss cancer cells in tumors, we created a strategy that combines a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-redirected T-cell attack with an engineered local release of the cytokine interleukin 12 (IL-12), which recruits and reinforces macrophage function. Cytotoxic T cells were engineered to release inducible IL-12 upon CAR engagement in the tumor lesion, resulting in destruction of antigen-loss cancer cells that would normally escape. Importantly, elimination of the antigen-loss cancer cells was accompanied by an accumulation of activated macrophages that was critical to the antitumor response, because removing the macrophages abolished the response and restoring them reengaged it.  Neutralizing TNF-α also abrogated the elimination of antigen-loss cancer cells, implying this proinflammatory factor in the process. Taken together, our results  show how IL-12 supplementation by CAR T cells can target otherwise inaccessible tumor lesions, in a manner associated with reduced systemic toxicity, by recruiting and activating innate immune cells for a proinflammatory response."

"1386. Gene Ther. 2011 Sep;18(9):849-56. doi: 10.1038/gt.2011.40. Epub 2011 Mar 31.","The hyperactive Sleeping Beauty transposase SB100X improves the genetic modification of T cells to express a chimeric antigen receptor.","Sleeping Beauty (SB3) transposon and transposase constitute a DNA plasmid system  used for therapeutic human cell genetic engineering. Here we report a comparison  of SB100X, a newly developed hyperactive SB transposase, to a previous generation SB11 transposase to achieve stable expression of a CD19-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR3) in primary human T cells. The electro-transfer of SB100X expressed from a DNA plasmid or as an introduced mRNA species had superior transposase activity in T cells based on the measurement of excision circles released after transposition and emergence of CAR expression on T cells selectively propagated upon CD19+ artificial antigen-presenting cells. Given that T cells modified with SB100X and SB11 integrate on average one copy of the CAR transposon in each T-cell genome, the improved transposition mediated by SB100X apparently leads to an augmented founder effect of electroporated T cells with durable integration of CAR. In aggregate, SB100X improves SB transposition in primary human T cells and can be titrated with an SB transposon plasmid to improve the generation of CD19-specific CAR+ T cells."

"1387. Sci Transl Med. 2011 Aug 10;3(95):95ra73. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3002842.","T cells with chimeric antigen receptors have potent antitumor effects and can establish memory in patients with advanced leukemia.","Tumor immunotherapy with T lymphocytes, which can recognize and destroy malignant cells, has been limited by the ability to isolate and expand T cells restricted to tumor-associated antigens. Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) composed of antibody binding domains connected to domains that activate T cells could overcome tolerance by allowing T cells to respond to cell surface antigens; however, to date, lymphocytes engineered to express CARs have demonstrated minimal in vivo expansion and antitumor effects in clinical trials. We report that CAR T cells that target CD19 and contain a costimulatory domain from CD137 and the T cell receptor ζ chain have potent non-cross-resistant clinical activity after infusion in three of three patients treated with advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The engineered T cells expanded >1000-fold in vivo, trafficked to bone marrow, and continued to express functional CARs at high levels for at least 6 months. Evidence for on-target toxicity included B cell aplasia as well as decreased numbers of plasma cells and hypogammaglobulinemia. On average, each infused CAR-expressing T cell was calculated to eradicate at least 1000 CLL cells. Furthermore, a CD19-specific immune response was demonstrated in the blood and bone marrow, accompanied by complete remission, in  two of three patients. Moreover, a portion of these cells persisted as memory CAR(+) T cells and retained anti-CD19 effector functionality, indicating the potential of this major histocompatibility complex-independent approach for the effective treatment of B cell malignancies."

"1388. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 Jul 15;17(14):4719-30. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-0351.  Epub 2011 May 24.","Expression of a functional CCR2 receptor enhances tumor localization and tumor eradication by retargeted human T cells expressing a mesothelin-specific chimeric antibody receptor.","PURPOSE: Adoptive T-cell immunotherapy with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes or genetically-modified T cells has yielded dramatic results in some cancers. However, T cells need to traffic properly into tumors to adequately exert therapeutic effects. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The chemokine CCL2 was highly secreted by malignant pleural  mesotheliomas (MPM; a planned tumor target), but the corresponding chemokine receptor (CCR2) was minimally expressed on activated human T cells transduced with a chimeric antibody receptor (CAR) directed to the MPM tumor antigen mesothelin (mesoCAR T cells). The chemokine receptor CCR2b was thus transduced into mesoCAR T cells using a lentiviral vector, and the modified T cells were used to treat established mesothelin-expressing tumors. RESULTS: CCR2b transduction led to CCL2-induced calcium flux and increased transmigration, as well as augmentation of in vitro T-cell killing ability. A single intravenous injection of 20 million mesoCAR + CCR2b T cells into immunodeficient mice bearing large, established tumors (without any adjunct therapy) resulted in a 12.5-fold increase in T-cell tumor infiltration by day 5 compared with mesoCAR T cells. This was associated with significantly increased antitumor activity. CONCLUSIONS: CAR T cells bearing a functional chemokine receptor can overcome the inadequate tumor localization that limits conventional CAR targeting strategies and can significantly improve antitumor efficacy in vivo."

"1389. Cancer Res. 2011 Jul 1;71(13):4617-27. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0422. Epub 2011 May 5.","In vivo persistence, tumor localization, and antitumor activity of CAR-engineered T cells is enhanced by costimulatory signaling through CD137 (4-1BB).","Human T cells engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) specific for folate receptor-α (FRα) have shown robust antitumor activity against epithelial cancers in vitro but not in the clinic because of their inability to persist and home to tumor in vivo. In this study, CARs were constructed containing a FRα-specific scFv (MOv19) coupled to the T-cell receptor CD3ζ chain  signaling module alone (MOv19-ζ) or in combination with the CD137 (4-1BB) costimulatory motif in tandem (MOv19-BBζ). Primary human T cells transduced to express conventional MOv19-ζ or costimulated MOv19-BBζ CARs secreted various proinflammatory cytokines, and exerted cytotoxic function when cocultured with FRα(+) tumor cells in vitro. However, only transfer of human T cells expressing the costimulated MOv19-BBζ CAR mediated tumor regression in immunodeficient mice  bearing large, established FRα(+) human cancer. MOv19-BBζ CAR T-cell infusion mediated tumor regression in models of metastatic intraperitoneal, subcutaneous,  and lung-involved human ovarian cancer. Importantly, tumor response was associated with the selective survival and tumor localization of human T cells in vivo and was only observed in mice receiving costimulated MOv19-BBζ CAR T cells.  T-cell persistence and antitumor activity were primarily antigen-driven; however, antigen-independent CD137 signaling by CAR improved T-cell persistence but not antitumor activity in vivo. Our results show that anti-FRα CAR outfitted with CD137 costimulatory signaling in tandem overcome issues of T-cell persistence and tumor localization that limit the conventional FRα T-cell targeting strategy to provide potent antitumor activity in vivo."

"1390. Cancer Res. 2011 May 15;71(10):3516-27. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-10-3843. Epub  2011 May 10.","Reprogramming CD19-specific T cells with IL-21 signaling can improve adoptive immunotherapy of B-lineage malignancies."," Improving the therapeutic efficacy of T cells expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) represents an important goal in efforts to control B-cell malignancies. Recently an intrinsic strategy has been developed to modify the CAR itself to improve T-cell signaling. Here we report a second extrinsic approach based on altering the culture milieu to numerically expand CAR(+) T cells with a  desired phenotype, for the addition of interleukin (IL)-21 to tissue culture improves CAR-dependent T-cell effector functions. We used electrotransfer of Sleeping Beauty system to introduce a CAR transposon and selectively propagate CAR(+) T cells on CD19(+) artificial antigen-presenting cells (aAPC). When IL-21  was present, there was preferential numeric expansion of CD19-specific T cells which lysed and produced IFN-γ in response to CD19. Populations of these numerically expanded CAR(+) T cells displayed an early memory surface phenotype characterized as CD62L(+)CD28(+) and a transcriptional profile of naïve T cells.  In contrast, T cells propagated with only exogenous IL-2 tended to result in an overgrowth of CD19-specific CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, adoptive transfer of CAR(+) T cells cultured with IL-21 exhibited improved control of CD19(+) B-cell malignancy in mice. To provide coordinated signaling to propagate CAR(+) T cells, we developed a novel mutein of IL-21 bound to the cell surface of aAPC that replaced the need for soluble IL-21. Our findings show that IL-21 can provide an  extrinsic reprogramming signal to generate desired CAR(+) T cells for effective immunotherapy."

"1391. Blood. 2011 May 5;117(18):4736-45. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-10-311845. Epub 2011 Mar 15.","In vitro and in vivo model of a novel immunotherapy approach for chronic lymphocytic leukemia by anti-CD23 chimeric antigen receptor.","Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by an accumulation of mature  CD19(+)CD5(+)CD20(dim) B lymphocytes that typically express the B-cell activation marker CD23. In the present study, we cloned and expressed in T lymphocytes a novel chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting the CD23 antigen (CD23.CAR). CD23.CAR(+) T cells showed specific cytotoxic activity against CD23(+) tumor cell lines (average lysis 42%) and primary CD23(+) CLL cells (average lysis 58%). This effect was obtained without significant toxicity against normal B lymphocytes, in contrast to CARs targeting CD19 or CD20 antigens, which are also expressed physiologically by normal B lymphocytes. Moreover, CLL-derived CD23.CAR(+) T cells released inflammatory cytokines (1445-fold more TNF-β, 20-fold more TNF-α,  and 4-fold more IFN-γ). IL-2 was also produced (average release 2681 pg/mL) and sustained the antigen-dependent proliferation of CD23.CAR(+) T cells. Redirected  T cells were also effective in vivo in a CLL Rag2(-/-)γ(c)(-/-) xenograft mouse model. Compared with mice treated with control T cells, the infusion of CD23.CAR(+) T cells resulted in a significant delay in the growth of the MEC-1 CLL cell line. These data suggest that CD23.CAR(+) T cells represent a selective  immunotherapy for the elimination of CD23(+) leukemic cells in patients with CLL."

"1392. Cancer Res. 2011 May 1;71(9):3175-81. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-10-4035.","Considerations for the clinical application of chimeric antigen receptor T cells: observations from a recombinant DNA Advisory Committee Symposium held June 15, 2010."," T cells that are genetically modified to express single-chain chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) have shown promise in early cancer immunotherapy clinical trials. Unfortunately, 2 recent deaths in cancer patients treated with CAR T cells have created some uncertainty on how to best mitigate patient risk, while continuing to advance this very promising therapeutic avenue. In order to address these concerns, the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC) held a symposium, the objectives of which were to first review the reported treatment-associated toxicities and, second, to discuss methods for improving safety and efficacy. This report highlights the issues raised as part of this discussion, with a specific focus on protocols infusing CAR T cells. Because this was not a consensus conference, the opinions described should not be construed to represent those of any individual RAC member, the RAC as a body, conference participants, the National Institutes of Health, or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration."

"1394. Mol Ther. 2011 Apr;19(4):760-7. doi: 10.1038/mt.2011.9. Epub 2011 Feb 15.","CD28 costimulation Impairs the efficacy of a redirected t-cell antitumor attack in the presence of regulatory t cells which can be overcome by preventing Lck activation.","Adoptive T-cell transfer showed promising efficacy in recent trials raising interest in T cells with redirected specificity against tumors. T cells were engineered with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) with predefined binding and CD3ζ signaling to initiate T-cell activation. CD28 costimulation provided by a CD28-CD3ζ signaling CAR moreover improved T cell activation and persistence; however, it failed to meet the expectations with respect to mounting attacks against solid tumors infiltrated with regulatory T (Treg) cells. We revealed that a CD28 CAR-redirected T-cell attack is accompanied by higher numbers of Treg cells infiltrating the tumor and is less efficient against cancer cells in presence of Treg cells than a CD3ζ CAR T-cell attack. Deletion of the lck binding moiety in the CD28 CAR endodomain, however, improved redirected anti-tumor activity in presence of Treg cells without impairing interferon-γ (IFN-γ) secretion, proliferation, and cytolysis. CD28 modification abrogated interleukin-2 (IL-2) induction upon CAR engagement which in turn is no longer available to sustain Treg cell persistence. CARs with the modified CD28 endodomain thereby expedite the implementation of adoptive T-cell therapy in patients with a variety of cancer types that are heavily infiltrated by Treg cells."

"1395. Blood. 2011 Jan 6;117(1):72-82. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-07-294520. Epub 2010 Oct  1.","Immune responses to transgene and retroviral vector in patients treated with ex vivo-engineered T cells.","Adoptive transfer of immune effector cells that are gene modified by retroviral transduction to express tumor-specific receptors constitutes an attractive approach to treat cancer. In patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, we performed a study with autologous T cells genetically retargeted with a chimeric  antibody receptor (CAR) directed toward carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX), an antigen  highly expressed in renal cell carcinoma. In the majority of patients, we observed distinct humoral and/or cellular anti-CAIX-CAR T-cell immune responses in combination with a limited peripheral persistence of transferred CAIX-CAR T cells in the majority of patients. Humoral immune responses were anti-idiotypic in nature and neutralized CAIX-CAR-mediated T-cell function. Cellular anti-CAIX-CAR immune responses were directed to the complementarity-determining and framework regions of the CAR variable domains. In addition, 2 patients developed immunity directed against presumed retroviral vector epitopes. Here, we document the novel feature that therapeutic cells, which were ex vivo engineered  by means of transduction with a minimal γ-retroviral vector, do express immunogenic vector-encoded epitopes, which might compromise persistence of these  cells. These observations may constitute a critical concern for clinical ex vivo  γ-retroviral gene transduction in general and CAR-retargeted T-cell therapy in particular, and underscore the need to attenuate the immunogenicity of both transgene and vector."

"1396. Blood. 2010 Aug 19;116(7):1035-44. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-01-043737. Epub 2010 May 3.","Redirecting T-cell specificity by introducing a tumor-specific chimeric antigen receptor.","Infusions of antigen-specific T cells have yielded therapeutic responses in patients with pathogens and tumors. To broaden the clinical application of adoptive immunotherapy against malignancies, investigators have developed robust  systems for the genetic modification and characterization of T cells expressing introduced chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to redirect specificity. Human trials are under way in patients with aggressive malignancies to test the hypothesis that manipulating the recipient and reprogramming T cells before adoptive transfer may improve their therapeutic effect. These examples of personalized medicine infuse T cells designed to meet patients needs by redirecting their specificity to target molecular determinants on the underlying  malignancy. The generation of clinical grade CAR(+) T cells is an example of bench-to-bedside translational science that has been accomplished using investigator-initiated trials operating largely without industry support. The next-generation trials will deliver designer T cells with improved homing, CAR-mediated signaling, and replicative potential, as investigators move from the bedside to the bench and back again."

"1397. J Biol Chem. 2010 Aug 13;285(33):25538-44. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.127951. Epub 2010 Jun 18.","Selective expansion of chimeric antigen receptor-targeted T-cells with potent effector function using interleukin-4.","Polyclonal T-cells can be directed against cancer using transmembrane fusion molecules known as chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). Although preclinical studies have provided encouragement, pioneering clinical trials using CAR-based immunotherapy have been disappointing. Key obstacles are the need for robust expansion ex vivo followed by sustained survival of infused T-cells in patients.  To address this, we have developed a system to achieve selective proliferation of CAR(+) T-cells using IL-4, a cytokine with several pathophysiologic and therapeutic links to cancer. A chimeric cytokine receptor (4alphabeta) was engineered by fusion of the IL-4 receptor alpha (IL-4Ralpha) ectodomain to the beta(c) subunit, used by IL-2 and IL-15. Addition of IL-4 to T-cells that express 4alphabeta resulted in STAT3/STAT5/ERK phosphorylation and exponential proliferation, mimicking the actions of IL-2. Using receptor-selective IL-4 muteins, partnering of 4alphabeta with gamma(c) was implicated in signal delivery. Next, human T-cells were engineered to co-express 4alphabeta with a CAR specific for tumor-associated MUC1. These T-cells exhibited an unprecedented capacity to elicit repeated destruction of MUC1-expressing tumor cultures and expanded through several logs in vitro. Despite prolonged culture in IL-4, T-cells retained specificity for target antigen, type 1 polarity, and cytokine dependence. Similar findings were observed using CARs directed against two additional tumor-associated targets, demonstrating generality of application. Furthermore, this system allows rapid ex vivo expansion and enrichment of engineered T-cells from small blood volumes, under GMP-compliant conditions. Together, these findings provide proof of principle for the development of IL-4-enhanced T-cell immunotherapy of cancer."

"1398. Cancer Res. 2010 May 15;70(10):3915-24. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-3845. Epub  2010 Apr 27.","Combining CD19 redirection and alloanergization to generate tumor-specific human  T cells for allogeneic cell therapy of B-cell malignancies.","Allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation can cure some patients with high-risk B-cell malignancies, but disease relapse following transplantation remains a significant problem. One approach that could be used to augment the donor T-cell-mediated antitumor effect is the infusion of allogeneic donor-derived T cells expressing a chimeric antibody receptor (CAR) specific to the B-cell antigen CD19. However, the use of such cells might result in toxicity  in the form of graft-versus-host disease mediated by CD19-specific (CD19-CAR) T cells possessing alloreactive endogenous T-cell receptors. We therefore investigated whether nonalloreactive tumor-specific human T cells could be generated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy donors by the combination of CD19 redirection via CAR expression and subsequent alloanergization by allostimulation and concomitant blockade of CD28-mediated costimulation. Alloanergization of CD19-CAR T cells resulted in efficient and selective reduction of alloresponses in both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, including allospecific proliferation and cytokine secretion. Importantly, T-cell effector functions including CAR-dependent proliferation and specific target cytolysis and cytokine production were retained after alloanergization. Our data support the application of CD19 redirection and subsequent alloanergization to generate allogeneic donor T cells for clinical use possessing increased antitumor activity but limited capacity to mediate graft-versus-host disease. Immunotherapy with such cells could potentially reduce disease relapse after allogeneic transplantation without increasing toxicity, thereby improving the outcome of patients undergoing allogeneic transplantation for high-risk B-cell malignancies."

"1399. J Immunol. 2010 Feb 15;184(4):1885-96. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0901440. Epub 2010 Jan 20.","Natural expression of the CD19 antigen impacts the long-term engraftment but not  antitumor activity of CD19-specific engineered T cells.","T cells gene-modified to express chimeric Ag receptors (CARs) have shown potent antitumor activity in vivo and are in clinical trials at locations worldwide. However, CAR activity has been investigated in mouse models in which Ag expression is restricted to the tumor. To explore the impact of normal tissue expression of the target Ag, we developed a mouse CD19-specific CAR to investigate antitumor efficacy against a syngeneic B cell lymphoma cell line within a background of normal CD19(+) host B cells. Mouse T cells engrafted with  the amCD19CD3zeta CAR specifically lysed A20 lymphoma targets and B cells in vitro. These T cells also eradicated a 12-d established disseminated A20 lymphoma in mice preconditioned with 6 Gy total body irradiation. In the short-term (7 d after adoptive transfer), amCD19z T cells underwent Ag-dependent proliferation in vivo with a concomitant depletion in host B cell levels. However, the levels of amCD19z CAR(+) T cells decreased significantly at later time points, at which point host B cells returned, eventually reaching normal levels. In contrast, CAR(+) T cells lacking a signaling domain or specificity for mCD19 persisted over extended periods in blood and spleen. Importantly, no overt clinical signs of autotoxicity were observed in tumor-free or tumor-bearing mice treated with amCD19z T cells over an extended period of time. These observations highlight the importance of studying the activity of CAR(+) T cells in autologous models that have the normal range of tissue expression of Ag."

"1400. Clin Cancer Res. 2009 Sep 15;15(18):5852-60. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-3163.  Epub 2009 Sep 8.","Immunotherapy of metastatic melanoma using genetically engineered GD2-specific T  cells.","PURPOSE: Genetic engineering of human T lymphocytes to express tumor-directed chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) can produce antitumor effector cells that bypass tumor immune escape mechanisms that are due to abnormalities in protein-antigen processing and presentation. Moreover, these transgenic receptors can be directed to tumor-associated antigens that are not protein-derived, such as the ganglioside GD2, which is expressed in a high proportion of melanoma cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We generated chimeric T cells specific for the ganglioside GD2 by joining an extracellular antigen-binding domain derived from the GD2-specific antibody sc14.G2a to cytoplasmic signaling domains derived from the  T-cell receptor zeta-chain, with the endodomains of the costimulatory molecules CD28 and OX40. We expressed this CAR in human T cells and assessed the targeting  of GD2-positive melanoma tumors in vitro and in a murine xenograft. RESULTS: Upon coincubation with GD2-expressing melanoma cells, CAR-GD2 T lymphocytes incorporating the CD28 and OX40 endodomains secreted significant levels of cytokines in a pattern comparable with the cytokine response obtained by engagement of the native CD3 receptor. These CAR-T cells had antimelanoma activity in vitro and in our xenograft model, increasing the survival of tumor-bearing animals. CONCLUSION: Redirecting human T lymphocytes to the tumor-associated ganglioside GD2 generates effector cells with antimelanoma activity that should be testable in subjects with disease."

"1401. Cancer Res. 2008 Apr 15;68(8):2961-71. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-5600.","Redirecting specificity of T-cell populations for CD19 using the Sleeping Beauty  system.","Genetic modification of clinical-grade T cells is undertaken to augment function, including redirecting specificity for desired antigen. We and others have introduced a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to enable T cells to recognize lineage-specific tumor antigen, such as CD19, and early-phase human trials are currently assessing safety and feasibility. However, a significant barrier to next-generation clinical studies is developing a suitable CAR expression vector capable of genetically modifying a broad population of T cells. Transduction of T cells is relatively efficient but it requires specialized manufacture of expensive clinical grade recombinant virus. Electrotransfer of naked DNA plasmid  offers a cost-effective alternative approach, but the inefficiency of transgene integration mandates ex vivo selection under cytocidal concentrations of drug to  enforce expression of selection genes to achieve clinically meaningful numbers of CAR(+) T cells. We report a new approach to efficiently generating T cells with redirected specificity, introducing DNA plasmids from the Sleeping Beauty transposon/transposase system to directly express a CD19-specific CAR in memory and effector T cells without drug selection. When coupled with numerical expansion on CD19(+) artificial antigen-presenting cells, this gene transfer method results in rapid outgrowth of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells expressing CAR to  redirect specificity for CD19(+) tumor cells."
