"Reference","Title","Abstract"

"2. Gut. 2019 Jun;68(6):1052-1064. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-316595. Epub 2018 Aug 18.","Switchable CAR-T cells mediate remission in metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.","OBJECTIVE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a disease of unmet medical  need. While immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells has shown much promise in haematological malignancies, their efficacy for solid tumours is challenged by the lack of tumour-specific antigens required to avoid on-target, off-tumour effects. Switchable CAR-T cells whereby activity of the CAR-T cell is controlled by dosage of a tumour antigen-specific recombinant Fab-based 'switch' to afford a fully tunable response may overcome this translational barrier. DESIGN: In this present study, we have used conventional and switchable CAR-T cells to target the antigen HER2, which is upregulated on tumour cells, but also  present at low levels on normal human tissue. We used patient-derived xenograft models derived from patients with stage IV PDAC that mimic the most aggressive features of PDAC, including severe liver and lung metastases. RESULTS: Switchable CAR-T cells followed by administration of the switch directed against human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-induced complete remission in difficult-to-treat, patient-derived advanced pancreatic tumour models. Switchable HER2 CAR-T cells were as effective as conventional HER2 CAR-T  cells in vivo testing a range of different CAR-T cell doses. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that a switchable CAR-T system is efficacious against aggressive and disseminated tumours derived from patients with advanced PDAC while affording the potential safety of a control switch."

"3. J Cell Physiol. 2019 Jun;234(6):9207-9215. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27599. Epub 2018 Oct  26.","Construction and functional characterization of a fully human anti-CD19 chimeric  antigen receptor (huCAR)-expressing primary human T cells.","Although remarkable results have been attained by adoptively transferring T cells expressing fully murine and/or humanized anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to treat B cell malignancies, evidence of human anti-mouse immune responses against CARs provides a rationale for the development of less immunogenic CARs. By developing a fully human CAR (huCAR), these human anti-mouse immune responses are likely eliminated. This, perhaps, not only increases the persistence of anti-CD19 CAR T cells-thereby reducing the risk of tumor relapse-but also facilitates administration of multiple, temporally separated doses of CAR T cells to the same recipient. To these ends, we have designed and constructed a second-generation fully human anti-CD19 CAR (or huCAR19) containing a fully human single-chain variable fragment (ScFv) fused with a CD8a hinge, a 4-1BB transmembrane domain and intracellular T cell signaling domains of 4-1BB and CD3z. T cells expressing this CAR specifically recognized and lysed CD19+ target cells produced cytokines and proliferated in vitro. Moreover, cell volume  data revealed that our huCAR construct cannot induce antigen-independent tonic signaling in the absence of cognate antigen. Considering our results, our anti-CD19 huCAR may overcome issues of transgene immunogenicity that plague trials utilizing CARs containing mouse-derived ScFvs. These results suggest that  this huCAR19 be safely and effectively applied for adaptive T cell immunotherapy  in clinical practice."

"4. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 May;25(5):e155-e162. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.11.025. Epub 2018 Nov 28.","Patient-Reported Outcomes with Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy: Challenges and Opportunities.","Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are an important tool to assess the impact of a  new therapy on symptom burden and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapies have been approved for use in  relapsed or refractory leukemia and lymphoma based on promising efficacy in clinical trials. However, data are lacking on patient-reported toxicity and impact on HRQoL. This review provides an overview of the incorporation of PROs in CAR-T cell therapy and the specific challenges in this context. The first step is to demonstrate feasibility of PRO monitoring in the acute phase after CAR-T cell  infusion. Apart from core PRO domains like physical functioning, disease-related  symptoms, and symptomatic adverse effects, important measures to consider are cognitive functioning and financial toxicity. Because there are no validated PRO  instruments in the setting of CAR-T cell therapy, universally validated measures  like Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) could be considered, which is also recommended in the setting of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Given the timeline of toxicities with CAR-T cell therapy, PRO instruments should be administered at baseline and at least weekly in the first 30 days. Subsequently, frequent monitoring of PROs in the first year might be helpful in identifying short- and intermediate-term toxicities, functional limitations, and neuropsychiatric effects. The major potential challenge in acute phase would be missing data when patients develop severe cytokine release syndrome or neurotoxicity. Designing a strategy for handling missing data is crucial. The long-term safety of CAR-T cell therapy is not well characterized because of short follow-up in most studies reported thus far. PROs should be measured at least yearly after the first year to identify potential late effects  like cognitive deficit or autoimmune manifestations. Collaboration between institutions performing cellular therapy and engagement with patients, clinicians, and statisticians with expertise in PROs are crucial for setting a comprehensive agenda on integration of PROs with CAR-T cell therapy."

"5. J Cell Physiol. 2019 May;234(5):5827-5841. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27519. Epub 2018 Oct  14.","Predictive and therapeutic biomarkers in chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy: A clinical perspective.","The adoptive transfer of genetically engineered T cells modified to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown remarkable activity and induces long-term remissions in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies. To date, little is known about predictive indicators of therapeutic efficacy or serious toxicity after CAR T-cell therapy in clinical practice. Biomarkers are not only potentially able to inform physicians and researchers of immunotherapy targets in particular but could also be used to monitor the effectiveness of treatments and  to predict incidence of side effects in some circumstances. Identification of new biomarkers can therefore not only contribute to the development of new therapeutic and prognostic strategies for CAR T-cell therapy for cancer but also  help to generate improved clinical practices for early recognition and minimization of adverse effects while preserving the antitumor activity of the CAR T cells. Herein, we will consider a variety of predictive and therapeutic biomarkers in CAR T-cell therapy and the state of current understanding of their  clinical utility. The incorporation of biomarker studies in CAR T-cell clinical trials and practice will help to realize the potential clinical benefit of biomarker-guided therapy."

"6. Annu Rev Immunol. 2019 Apr 26;37:145-171. doi: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-042718-041407. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Emerging Cellular Therapies for Cancer.","Genetically engineered T cells are powerful new medicines, offering hope for curative responses in patients with cancer. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells were recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and are poised to enter the practice of medicine for leukemia and lymphoma, demonstrating that engineered immune cells can serve as a powerful new class of cancer therapeutics. The emergence of synthetic biology approaches for cellular engineering provides a broadly expanded set of tools for programming immune cells for enhanced function. Advances in T cell engineering, genetic editing, the selection of optimal lymphocytes, and cell manufacturing have the potential to broaden T cell-based therapies and foster new applications beyond oncology, in infectious diseases, organ transplantation, and autoimmunity."

"7. Int J Cancer. 2019 Apr 15;144(8):2043-2050. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31924. Epub 2018 Dec 20.","The landscape of CAR T-cell therapy in the United States and China: A comparative analysis.","The clinical trials of CAR T-cell therapy are growing fast in recent years, and most of the trials are initiated by sponsors from the United States and China. Exhibiting the distinctions between the clinical trials in the two countries is of great value for understanding the panorama of CAR T-cell clinical trials and forecasting the future of this promising therapy. We analyzed the critical elements of 289 clinical trials posted on the clinicaltrials.gov website by sponsors from the two countries and evaluated the efficacy data in available 50 published CAR T-cell studies. Our analysis shows that China has become the country with the largest number of CAR-T cell clinical trials by the end of 2017, while overall subject sample size and study center numbers are still larger, and  the design of the clinical trials is more cautious in the United States. There are obvious differences between the two countries in CAR-targeted antigens in solid tumors and genetic modifications besides CARs for enhancing the potency of  CAR T-cells. Although the currently available response rates are promising in both countries, it is inexpedient to conclude that the clinical efficacy is comparable between the two countries considering the smaller patient sample sizes and discrete distribution of median cell doses in China. And finally, the flexible regulatory regime of cell therapy in China, which expedites the bursting of CAR T-cell therapy, is also firstly introduced in our study."

"9. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Apr;25(4):625-638. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.12.758. Epub 2018 Dec 25.","ASTCT Consensus Grading for Cytokine Release Syndrome and Neurologic Toxicity Associated with Immune Effector Cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy is rapidly emerging as one of the  most promising therapies for hematologic malignancies. Two CAR T products were recently approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment ofpatients up to age 25years with relapsed or refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and/or adults with large B cell lymphoma. Many more CAR T products, as well as other immunotherapies, including various immune cell- and bi-specific antibody-based approaches that function by activation of immune effector cells, are in clinical development for both hematologic and solid tumor malignancies. These therapies are associated with unique toxicities of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurologic toxicity. The assessment and grading of these toxicities vary considerably across clinical trials and across institutions, making it difficult to compare the safety of different products and hindering the ability to develop optimal strategies for management of these toxicities. Moreover, some aspects of these grading systems can be challenging to implement across centers. Therefore, in an effort to harmonize the definitions and grading  systems for CRS and neurotoxicity, experts from all aspects of the field met on June 20 and 21, 2018, at a meeting supported by the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT; formerly American Society for Blood  and Marrow Transplantation, ASBMT) in Arlington, VA. Here we report the consensus recommendations of that group and propose new definitions and grading for CRS and neurotoxicity that are objective, easy to apply, and ultimately more accurately categorize the severity of these toxicities. The goal is to provide a uniform consensus grading system for CRS and neurotoxicity associated with immune effector cell therapies, for use across clinical trials and in the postapproval clinical setting."

"11. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Apr 1;25(7):2042-2048. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1625.  Epub 2018 Nov 16.","Immunotherapy for Glioblastoma: Adoptive T-cell Strategies.","Glioblastoma (GBM) is a devastating disease with an extremely poor prognosis. Immunotherapy via adoptive cell transfer (ACT), especially with T cells engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR), represents a particularly promising approach. Despite the recent success of CAR T cells for blood cancers,  the question remains whether this powerful anticancer therapy will ultimately work for brain tumors, and whether the primary immunologic challenges in this disease, which include antigenic heterogeneity, immune suppression, and T-cell exhaustion, can be adequately addressed. Here, we contextualize these concepts by reviewing recent developments in ACT for GBM, with a special focus on pioneering  clinical trials of CAR T-cell therapy."

"12. Clin Chem. 2019 Apr;65(4):519-529. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.258988. Epub 2018 Dec 28.","Immunotherapy Using Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells: A Novel Cellular Therapy with Important Implications for the Clinical Laboratory.","BACKGROUND: We have entered a new era of cancer therapy, with a number of immune-based therapies already used clinically as a standard of care. Adoptive cellular immunotherapy using T cells genetically modified with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T cells) represents a novel therapeutic approach. CAR-T cells have produced clinical responses in B-cell malignancies that are otherwise refractory  to conventional therapies. Two CAR-T cell therapies obtained regulatory approval  in 2017, with many more of these therapies under clinical development. CONTENT: This review focuses on the current state of adoptive cellular immunotherapy, specifically CAR-T cells, in the clinic and how this therapy differs from traditional small molecule and biologic therapies. Areas in which the clinical laboratory is affected by these novel therapies are discussed. Opportunities for the clinical laboratory to help guide these therapies are also  highlighted. SUMMARY: The clinical laboratory will play an integral role in the care of patients undergoing adoptive cellular therapy with engineered T cells. There are  many ways that this new therapeutic approach affects the clinical laboratory, and the clinical laboratory will likely play a critical role in managing patients that are treated with CAR-T cell therapy."

"13. Hum Gene Ther. 2019 Apr;30(4):446-458. doi: 10.1089/hum.2017.234. Epub 2018 Apr 27.","Nucleofection with Plasmid DNA for CRISPR/Cas9-Mediated Inactivation of Programmed Cell Death Protein 1 in CD133-Specific CAR T Cells.","CRISPR/Cas9-mediated programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) disruption in chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells could be an appealing choice to improve the therapeutic efficacy of CAR T cells in an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. In most of the reported cases, Cas9 was delivered into T cells  by way of electroporation with RNA or protein. However, transient expression of Cas9 by transfection with a plasmid encoding its gene is apparently simpler, as it avoids the steps of in vitro transcription of DNA or protein production. This  study tried nucleofection into human primary T cells of plasmids encoding both CRISPR/Cas9 for disrupting the PD-1 gene and the piggyBac transposon system for expressing CD133-specific CAR in one reaction. Based on drug selection, CD133-specific CAR T cells were obtained in which, on average, 91.5% of the PD-1  gene sites were disrupted, but almost no Cas9 gene expression was found in the final engineered CAR T cells. The PD-1-deficient CD133-specific CAR T cells showed similar levels of cytokine secretion and improved proliferation and cytotoxicity in vitro, and enhanced inhibition of tumor growth in an orthotopic mouse model of glioma, compared to conventional CD133-CAR T cells. The described  method could be useful for the production of PD-1-deficient CAR T cells for cancer immunotherapy."  DOI: 10.1089/hum.2017.234  PMID: 29706119    "14. Virchows Arch. 2019 Apr;474(4):449-461. doi: 10.1007/s00428-018-2484-0. Epub 2018 Nov 23.","Adoptive cellular therapies: the current landscape.","For many cancer types, the immune system plays an essential role in their development and growth. Based on these rather novel insights, immunotherapeutic strategies have been developed. In the past decade, immune checkpoint blockade has demonstrated a major breakthrough in cancer treatment and has currently been  approved for the treatment of multiple tumor types. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) or gene-modified T cells expressing novel T cell receptors (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) is another strategy to modify the immune system to recognize tumor cells and thus carry out  an anti-tumor effector function. These treatments have shown promising results in various tumor types, and multiple clinical trials are being conducted worldwide to further optimize this treatment modality. Most successful results were obtained in hematological malignancies with the use of CD19-directed CAR T cell therapy and already led to the commercial approval by the FDA. This review provides an overview of the developments in ACT, the associated toxicity, and the future potential of ACT in cancer treatment."

"15. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Mar 15;25(6):1702-1708. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-2743. Epub 2018 Nov 9.","FDA Approval Summary: Axicabtagene Ciloleucel for Relapsed or Refractory Large B-cell Lymphoma.","In October 2017, the FDA granted regular approval to axicabtagene ciloleucel, a CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, for treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Efficacy was based on complete remission (CR) rate and duration of response (DOR) in 101 adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (median 3 prior systemic regimens) treated on a  single-arm trial. Patients received a single infusion of axicabtagene ciloleucel, preceded by lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. The objective response rate per independent review committee was 72% [95% confidence interval (CI), 62-81], with a CR rate of 51% (95% CI, 41-62). With a median follow-up of 7.9 months, the median DOR was not reached in patients achieving CR (95% CI, 8.1 months; not estimable, NE), whereas patients with partial remission had an estimated median DOR of 2.1 months (95% CI, 1.3-5.3). Among 108 patients evaluated for safety, serious adverse reactions occurred in 52%. Cytokine release syndrome and neurologic toxicities occurred in 94% and 87%  of patients, respectively, leading to implementation of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy."

"16. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Mar;25(3):e76-e85. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.12.068. Epub 2018 Dec 18.","Clinical Utilization of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in B Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: An Expert Opinion from the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation and the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation.","On August 30, 2017 the US Food and Drug Administration approved tisagenlecleucel  (Kymriah; Novartis, Basel, Switzerland), a synthetic bioimmune product of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T), for the treatment of children and young adults with relapsed/refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). With this new era of personalized cancer immunotherapy, multiple challenges are present, ranging from implementation of a CAR-T program to safe delivery of the drug, long-term toxicity monitoring, and disease assessments. To address these issues experts representing the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplant, the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, the International Society of Cell and Gene Therapy, and the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy formed a global CAR-T task force to identify and address key questions pertinent for hematologists and transplant physicians regarding the clinical use of anti CD19 CAR-T therapy in patients with B-ALL. This article presents an initial roadmap for navigating common clinical practice scenarios that will become more prevalent now that the first commercially available CAR-T product for B-ALL has been approved."

"17. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:67-83. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.12.001. Epub 2018 Dec 5.","Immunotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes: The dawn of a new era?","Immunotherapy has revolutionized therapy in both solid and liquid malignancies. The ability to cure acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) is proof of concept for the application of immunotherapy in AML and MDS. However, outside of  HSCT, only the anti-CD33 antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin is currently approved as an antibody-targeted therapy for AML. Several avenues of immunotherapeutic drugs are currently in different stages of clinical development. Here, we review recent advances in antibody-based therapy, immune checkpoint inhibitors, vaccines and adoptive cell-based therapy for patients with AML and MDS. First, we discuss different antibody constructs. Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) and CD47 as well as peptide, dendritic cell and dendritic/AML cell-based vaccines are reviewed next. Lastly, adoptive cell-based therapy including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell and NK cell therapy is discussed."

"18. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:45-55. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.11.002. Epub 2018 Nov 14.","Recent advances in CAR T-cell toxicity: Mechanisms, manifestations and management.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is an effective new treatment for  hematologic malignancies. Two CAR T-cell products are now approved for clinical use by the U.S. FDA: tisagenlecleucel for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia  (ALL) and adult diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtypes (DLBCL), and axicabtagene  ciloleucel for DLBCL. CAR T-cell therapies are being developed for multiple myeloma, and clear evidence of clinical activity has been generated. A barrier to widespread use of CAR T-cell therapy is toxicity, primarily cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurologic toxicity. Manifestations of CRS include fevers, hypotension, hypoxia, end organ dysfunction, cytopenias, coagulopathy, and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Neurologic toxicities are diverse and include encephalopathy, cognitive defects, dysphasias, seizures, and cerebral edema. Our  understanding of the pathophysiology of CRS and neurotoxicity is continually improving. Early and peak levels of certain cytokines, peak blood CAR T-cell levels, patient disease burden, conditioning chemotherapy, CAR T-cell dose, endothelial activation, and CAR design are all factors that may influence toxicity. Multiple grading systems for CAR T-cell toxicity are in use; a universal grading system is needed so that CAR T-cell products can be compared across studies. Guidelines for toxicity management vary among centers, but typically include supportive care, plus immunosuppression with tocilizumab or corticosteroids administered for severe toxicity. Gaining a better understanding  of CAR T-cell toxicities and developing new therapies for these toxicities are active areas of laboratory research. Further clinical investigation of CAR T-cell toxicity is also needed. In this review, we present guidelines for management of  CRS and CAR neurotoxicity."

"19. Blood Rev. 2019 Mar;34:26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2018.10.003. Epub 2018 Nov 1.","Prognostic and therapeutic role of CLEC12A in acute myeloid leukemia.","CLEC12A has recently been identified as an antigen, expressed on leukemic stem cells and leukemic blasts. Given the fact that this expression profile seems stable throughout diagnosis, treatment and relapse on leukemic blasts and leukemic stem cells, CLEC12A can be considered a highly potent and reliable marker for the detection of measurable residual disease and therefore applicable  for risk stratification and prognostication in AML. Low CLEC12A expression on leukemic blasts seems to be independently associated with lower likelihood of achieving complete remission after 1 cycle of induction chemotherapy, shorter event free survival, as well as overall survival, indicating potential prognostic properties of CLEC12A expression itself. Lack of expression on the normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, in contrast to CD123 and CD33, might result in less toxicity regarding cytopenias, making CLEC12A an interesting target for innovating immunotherapies, including monoclonal and bispecific antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates and CAR-T cells therapy."

"20. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2019 Mar;54(3):485-489. doi: 10.1038/s41409-018-0329-8. Epub 2018 Aug 31.","Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR T cells) are dosed similarly to donor lymphocyte infusions following hematopoietic cell transplantation. However, the mechanism driving proliferation in CAR T cells is distinct from conventional T cells. As such there are quantitative differences in the antigen response of these engineered cells when compared with conventional T cells. In this perspective paper the logistic equation of growth is used to develop a mathematical basis for understanding the difference between CAR T cell and conventional T cell response to antigen burden."

"21. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2019 Mar;68(3):365-377. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2281-2. Epub 2018 Dec 6.","CRISPR/Cas9-mediated PD-1 disruption enhances human mesothelin-targeted CAR T cell effector functions.","The interaction between programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on activated T cells and its ligands on a target tumour may limit the capacity of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to eradicate solid tumours. PD-1 blockade could potentially enhance CAR T cell function. Here, we show that mesothelin is overexpressed in human triple-negative breast cancer cells and can be targeted by CAR T cells. To overcome the suppressive effect of PD-1 on CAR T cells, we utilized CRISPR/Cas9 ribonucleoprotein-mediated editing to disrupt the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) gene locus in human primary T cells, resulting in a significantly reduced PD-1hi population. This reduction had little effect on CAR  T cell proliferation but strongly augmented CAR T cell cytokine production and cytotoxicity towards PD-L1-expressing cancer cells in vitro. CAR T cells with PD-1 disruption show enhanced tumour control and relapse prevention in vivo when  compared with CAR T cells with or without αPD-1 antibody blockade. Our study demonstrates a potential advantage of integrated immune checkpoint blockade with  CAR T cells in controlling solid tumours and provides an alternative CAR T cell strategy for adoptive transfer therapy."

"22. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Feb 15;25(4):1133-1135. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-3328. Epub 2018 Nov 21.","First CAR to Pass the Road Test: Tisagenlecleucel's Drive to FDA Approval.","In August 2017, the FDA took historic action in granting the first approval of gene therapy to tisagenlecleucel. This landmark step brought CAR T-cell therapy to the commercial space and heralded a new era in managing refractory B-cell malignancies and FDA oversight of gene-modified therapies.See related article by  O'Leary et al., p. 1142."

"23. Blood. 2019 Feb 14;133(7):697-709. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-10-881722. Epub 2018 Nov 21.","GM-CSF inhibition reduces cytokine release syndrome and neuroinflammation but enhances CAR-T cell function in xenografts.","Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy is a new pillar in cancer therapeutics; however, its application is limited by the associated toxicities. These include cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurotoxicity. Although the IL-6R antagonist tocilizumab is approved for treatment of CRS, there is no approved treatment of neurotoxicity associated with CD19-targeted CAR-T (CART19)  cell therapy. Recent data suggest that monocytes and macrophages contribute to the development of CRS and neurotoxicity after CAR-T cell therapy. Therefore, we  investigated neutralizing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as a potential strategy to manage CART19 cell-associated toxicities. In  this study, we show that GM-CSF neutralization with lenzilumab does not inhibit CART19 cell function in vitro or in vivo. Moreover, CART19 cell proliferation was enhanced and durable control of leukemic disease was maintained better in patient-derived xenografts after GM-CSF neutralization with lenzilumab. In a patient acute lymphoblastic leukemia xenograft model of CRS and neuroinflammation (NI), GM-CSF neutralization resulted in a reduction of myeloid and T cell infiltration in the central nervous system and a significant reduction in NI and  prevention of CRS. Finally, we generated GM-CSF-deficient CART19 cells through CRISPR/Cas9 disruption of GM-CSF during CAR-T cell manufacturing. These GM-CSFk/o CAR-T cells maintained normal functions and had enhanced antitumor activity in vivo, as well as improved overall survival, compared with CART19 cells. Together, these studies illuminate a novel approach to abrogate NI and CRS through GM-CSF neutralization, which may potentially enhance CAR-T cell function. Phase 2 studies with lenzilumab in combination with CART19 cell therapy are planned."

"24. Mol Ther. 2019 Feb 6;27(2):287-299. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2018.11.015. Epub 2018 Nov 20.","Chimeric Antigen Receptor Library Screening Using a Novel NF-κB/NFAT Reporter Cell Platform.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell immunotherapy is under intense preclinical and clinical investigation, and it involves a rapidly increasing portfolio of novel target antigens and CAR designs. We established a platform that enables rapid and high-throughput CAR-screening campaigns with reporter cells derived from the T cell lymphoma line Jurkat. Reporter cells were equipped with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) reporter genes that generate a duplex output of enhanced CFP (ECFP) and EGFP, respectively. As a proof of concept, we modified reporter cells with CD19-specific and ROR1-specific CARs, and we detected high-level reporter signals that allowed distinguishing functional from non-functional CAR constructs. The reporter data were highly reproducible, and the time required for completing each testing campaign was substantially shorter with reporter cells (6 days) compared to primary CAR-T cells (21 days). We challenged the reporter platform to a large-scale screening campaign on a ROR1-CAR library, and we showed that reporter cells retrieved a functional CAR variant that was present with a frequency of only 6 in 1.05 × 106. The data illustrate the potential to implement this reporter platform into the preclinical development path of novel CAR-T cell products and to inform and accelerate the selection of lead CAR candidates for clinical translation."

"25. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Feb;25(2):223-232. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.10.004. Epub 2018 Oct 10.","Manufacture of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells from Mobilized Cyropreserved Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Units Depends on Monocyte Depletion.","Cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation can render lymphocyte repertoires qualitatively and quantitatively defective. Thus, heavily treated patients are often poor candidates for the manufacture of autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell products. In the United States and Europe, children with high-risk neuroblastoma undergo apheresis early in the course of treatment to collect peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) for cryopreservation in preparation for high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell rescue. Here, we investigate whether these cryopreserved chemotherapy and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized PBSCs can serve as starting material  for CAR-T cell manufacturing. We evaluated T cell precursor subsets in cryopreserved PBSC units from 8 patients with neuroblastoma using fluorescent activated cell sorting-based analysis. Every cryopreserved unit collected early in treatment contained both CD4 and CD8 precursors with significant numbers of naïve and central memory precursors. Significant numbers of Ki67+/PD1+ T cells were detected, presumably the result of chemotherapy-induced lymphopenia and subsequent homeostatic proliferation. Cryopreserved PBSC units containing 56 to 112 × 106 T cells were amenable to immunomagnetic selection, CD3 × 28 bead activation, lentiviral transduction, and cytokine-driven expansion, provided that CD14 monocytes were depleted before the initiation of cultures. Second- and third-generation CD171 CAR+ CD4 and CD8 effector cells derived from cryopreserved units displayed antineuroblastoma lytic potency and cytokine secretion comparable to those derived from a healthy donor and mediated in vivo antitumor regression in NSG mice. We conclude that cryopreserved PBSCs procured via standard methods during early treatment can serve as an alternative starting source for CAR-T cell manufacturing, extending the options for heavily treated patients."

"28. Cancer Res. 2019 Feb 1;79(3):663-675. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-1078. Epub 2018 Dec 4.","CML Hematopoietic Stem Cells Expressing IL1RAP Can Be Targeted by Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Engineered T Cells.","Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a chronic disease resulting in myeloid cell expansion through expression of the BCR-ABL1 fusion transcript. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have significantly increased survival of patients with CML, and  deep responders may consider stopping the treatment. However, more than 50% of patients relapse and restart TKI, subsequently suffering unknown toxicity. Because CML is a model immune system-sensitive disease, we hypothesize that chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting IL1 receptor-associated protein (IL1RAP) in quiescent CML stem cells may offer an opportunity for a permanent cure. In this study, we produced and molecularly characterized a specific monoclonal anti-IL1RAP antibody from which fragment antigen-binding nucleotide coding sequences were cloned as a single chain into a lentiviral backbone and secured with the suicide gene iCASP9/rimiducid system. Our CAR T-cell therapy exhibited cytotoxicity against both leukemic stem cells and, to a lesser extent,  monocytes expressing IL1RAP, with no apparent effect on the hematopoietic system, including CD34+ stem cells. This suggests IL1RAP as a tumor-associated antigen for immunotherapy cell targeting. IL1RAP CAR T cells were activated in the presence of IL1RAP+ cell lines or primary CML cells, resulting in secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and specifically killing in vitro and in a xenograft murine model. Overall, we demonstrate the proof of concept of a CAR T-cell immunotherapy approach in the context of CML that is applicable for young patients and primary TKI-resistant, intolerant, or allograft candidate patients.  SIGNIFICANCE: These findings present the first characterization and proof of concept of a chimeric antigen receptor directed against IL1RAP expressed by leukemic stem cells in the context of CML."

"29. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2019 Feb;55:87-94. doi: 10.1016/j.copbio.2018.08.008. Epub  2018 Sep 6.","Engineering mammalian cells for disease diagnosis and treatment.","Synthetic biology aims to repurpose cells to sense a wide range of input signals  and respond by conditionally expressing user-defined output genes. In this review, we highlight the latest developments in synthetic-biology-inspired in vitro and in vivo diagnostics and therapeutics employing engineered mammalian cells. Recent work has led to the creation of modular synthetic receptors with adaptable ligand-binding domains whose recognition specificity can be easily tailored to target various diseases. Engineered cells can now sense a great variety of soluble and surface-bound antigens with unprecedented selectivity and  sensitivity, and implanted designer cells equipped with appropriate response modules can successfully treat diabetes, cancer and autoimmune diseases in animal models. Recently, the first immunotherapies using chimeric-antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells were approved to treat lymphoma patients. As this milestone paves the way for translating state-of-the-art synthetic biology approaches into clinical benefit, we also discuss the challenges facing engineered cell therapies."

"30. Curr Protoc Immunol. 2019 Feb;124(1):e69. doi: 10.1002/cpim.69. Epub 2018 Oct 18.","Ribonucleoprotein Transfection for CRISPR/Cas9-Mediated Gene Knockout in Primary  T Cells.","CRISPR/Cas9 has enabled the rapid and efficient generation of gene knockouts across various cell types of several species. T cells are central players in adaptive immune responses. Gene editing in primary T cells not only represents a  valuable research tool, but is also critical for next generation immunotherapies, such as CAR T cells. Broad application of CRIPSR/Cas9 for gene editing in primary T cells has been hampered by limitations in transfection efficiency and the requirement for TCR stimulation. In this article, we provide a detailed protocol  for Cas9/gRNA ribonucleoprotein (RNP) transfection of primary mouse and human T cells without the need for TCR stimulation that achieves near complete loss of target gene expression at the population level. This approach enables rapid target discovery and validation in both mouse and human primary T cells."

"31. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2019 Feb;14(2):115-125. doi: 10.1080/17460441.2019.1559147. Epub 2018 Dec 24.","Enabling drug discovery and development through single-cell imaging.","INTRODUCTION: Single-cell imaging-based assays are an area of active and growing  investment in drug discovery and development. This approach offers researchers the capability to interrogate rare subpopulations of cells with minimal sample consumption and multiplexed readouts. Recent technological advances in the optical interrogation and manipulation of single cells have substantially increased the throughput and sensitivity of these assays. Areas covered: In this  review, the authors focus on three classes of single-cell imaging-based analyses: single-cell microscopy combined with microfluidics, mass spectrometric imaging for subcellular compound localization, and imaging mass cytometry (IMC). They provide an overview of each technology and recent examples of their utility in advancing drug discovery, based on the potential for scalability, multiplexing, and capability to generate definitive data on cellular heterogeneity and target engagement. Expert opinion: Understanding target engagement and heterogeneity at  the single-cell level will enable the development of safer and more effective therapies, particularly for new modalities like CAR-T cell therapies and gene editing approaches (AAV, CRISPR). Successful adoption of new single-cell imaging-based approaches in drug discovery will require tandem investment in advanced computational analysis and bioinformatic approaches, due to the complexity and multivariate nature of single-cell imaging data."

"32. Hum Gene Ther. 2019 Feb;30(2):168-178. doi: 10.1089/hum.2018.145. Epub 2018 Oct 2.","Purification of mRNA Encoding Chimeric Antigen Receptor Is Critical for Generation of a Robust T-Cell Response.","T cells made with messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) offer a safe alternative to those transduced with viral CARs by mitigating the side effects of constitutively active T cells. Previous studies have shown that mRNA CAR T cells are transiently effective but lack persistence and potency across tumor types. It was hypothesized that the efficacy of mRNA CARs could be improved by utilizing recent advancements in RNA technology, such as incorporating a modified nucleoside, 1-methylpseudouridine, into the mRNA and applying a novel purification method using RNase III to eliminate dsRNA contaminants. T cells electroporated with nucleoside-modified and purified mRNA encoding CD19 CAR showed an initial twofold increase in CAR surface expression, as well as a twofold improvement in cytotoxic killing of leukemia cells that persisted up to 5 days. T cells generated with nucleoside-modified and purified CAR mRNA also showed reduced expression of checkpoint regulators and a differential pattern of genetic activation compared to those made with conventional mRNA. In vivo studies using a leukemia mouse model revealed that the most robust 100-fold suppression of leukemic burden was achieved using T cells electroporated with purified mRNAs, regardless of their nucleoside modification.  The results provide a novel approach to generate mRNA for clinical trials, and poise mRNA CAR T cells for increased efficacy during testing as new CAR targets emerge."

"33. J Clin Oncol. 2019 Feb 1;37(4):328-335. doi: 10.1200/JCO.18.01457. Epub 2018 Dec  13.","CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor Therapy for Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma.","PURPOSE: Anti-CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has had a resounding effect on the treatment of chemotherapy-insensitive aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). There are now two US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved products available for treating these patients, and a third product is expected to be approved in the coming months. The question remains: Is there a preferred or best product for my patient? However, answering  that question is more complicated than simply balancing the reported efficacy and toxicity results. DESIGN: This review outlines potential confounding factors involving the three products and their pivotal clinical trials and highlights additional considerations of manufacturing reliability and overall cost that must be considered when weighing one product against another. It will also review the directions in which the field is moving and strategies being examined to improve  efficacy as well as toxicity. CONCLUSION: Because a randomized three-arm clinical trial is unlikely, a product  may have to be chosen on the basis of results from treatment centers that have experience with all three products. But by the time those results are available,  they are likely to be outdated because, given the rapid evolution of the field, the next product will probably have been identified."

"35. Semin Oncol. 2019 Feb;46(1):28-38. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2018.12.003. Epub 2018 Dec 27.","Systemic treatment of pancreatic cancer revisited.","Pancreatic cancer is considered to be one of the most aggressive cancers. For unknown reasons, the incidence of pancreatic cancer is slowly rising and so too are mortality rates. Over 75% of patients are diagnosed with locally advanced disease or with metastases; and more than 95% of patients have metastases at diagnosis or will develop metastases during their follow-up. Despite recent improvements in the therapy of pancreatic cancer, initially with demonstration of the activity of the FOLFIRINOX regimen and subsequently the approval of nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine, prognosis remains poor and the 5-year survival rate is less than 5%. To date, neither personalized medicine nor  immunotherapy, the 2 recent revolutions of cancer treatment, have delivered major positive results in the treatment of pancreatic cancer; and it is especially clear that immune checkpoint inhibitors will not become a major tool in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. There are many ongoing studies, including those exploring combinations of chemotherapy with immunotherapy. Vaccines or T cells modified with a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T cells) could also play a role in the treatment of cancer in the future. The aim of this review is to discuss recent improvements in standard of care, major obstacles to overcome, recent results of new treatment combinations, and the most interesting innovative approaches."

"36. Front Immunol. 2019 Jan 22;9:3062. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.03062. eCollection 2018.","Genetically Engineered T-Cells for Malignant Glioma: Overcoming the Barriers to Effective Immunotherapy.","Malignant gliomas carry a dismal prognosis. Conventional treatment using chemo- and radiotherapy has limited efficacy with adverse events. Therapy with genetically engineered T-cells, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells,  may represent a promising approach to improve patient outcomes owing to their potential ability to attack highly infiltrative tumors in a tumor-specific manner and possible persistence of the adaptive immune response. However, the unique anatomical features of the brain and susceptibility of this organ to irreversible tissue damage have made immunotherapy especially challenging in the setting of glioma. With safety concerns in mind, multiple teams have initiated clinical trials using CAR T-cells in glioma patients. The valuable lessons learnt from those trials highlight critical areas for further improvement: tackling the issues of the antigen presentation and T-cell homing in the brain, immunosuppression in the glioma microenvironment, antigen heterogeneity and off-tumor toxicity, and the adaptation of existing clinical therapies to reflect  the intricacies of immune response in the brain. This review summarizes the up-to-date clinical outcomes of CAR T-cell clinical trials in glioma patients and examines the most pressing hurdles limiting the efficacy of these therapies. Furthermore, this review uses these hurdles as a framework upon which to evaluate cutting-edge pre-clinical strategies aiming to overcome those barriers."

"37. Front Immunol. 2019 Jan 18;9:3180. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.03180. eCollection 2018.","Lymphocytes in Cellular Therapy: Functional Regulation of CAR T Cells.","Lymphocytes especially autologous T cells have been used for the treatment of numerous indications including cancers, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. Very recently, FDA approved Chimeric Antigen Receptor T cells (CAR T cells) therapy for relapse and refractory CD19+ B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (r/r B-ALL) and r/r diffuse large B cell lymphoma (r/r DLBCL) upon their remarkable success in multiple Phase I-II clinical trials. While CAR T cells are  considered as major breakthrough in the field of cancer immunotherapy, the regulation of CAR T cells remains poorly understood. In this review we will discuss the strategies that regulate the CAR T cells efficacy and persistence with focus on roles of different structural component of CAR construct. Different domains of CAR construct, for example, antigen binding domain, hinge, transmembrane, and signaling domain as well as immune-regulatory cytokines have significant impact on CAR T cell efficacy. Finally, this review will highlight the strategies that will promote CAR T cells efficacy and will reduce the toxicity."

"38. Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 15;79(2):387-396. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-1834. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Use of a Single CAR T Cell and Several Bispecific Adapters Facilitates Eradication of Multiple Antigenically Different Solid Tumors.","Most solid tumors are comprised of multiple clones that express orthogonal antigens, suggesting that novel strategies must be developed in order to adapt chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies to treat heterogeneous solid tumors. Here, we utilized a cocktail of low-molecular-weight bispecific adapters, each comprised of fluorescein linked to a different tumor-specific ligand, to bridge between an antifluorescein CAR on the engineered T cell and a unique antigen on the cancer cell. This formation of an immunologic synapse between the  CAR T cell and cancer cell enabled use of a single antifluorescein CAR T cell to  eradicate a diversity of antigenically different solid tumors implanted concurrently in NSG mice. Based on these data, we suggest that a carefully designed cocktail of bispecific adapters in combination with antifluorescein CAR  T cells can overcome tumor antigen escape mechanisms that lead to disease recurrence following many CAR T-cell therapies. SIGNIFICANCE: A cocktail of tumor-targeted bispecific adapters greatly augments CAR T-cell therapies against  heterogeneous tumors, highlighting its potential for broader applicability against cancers where standard CAR T-cell therapy has failed."

"39. N Engl J Med. 2019 Jan 3;380(1):45-56. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1804980. Epub 2018 Dec  1.","Tisagenlecleucel in Adult Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.","BACKGROUND: Patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that is refractory to primary and second-line therapies or that has relapsed after stem-cell transplantation have a poor prognosis. The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy tisagenlecleucel targets and eliminates CD19-expressing B cells and showed efficacy against B-cell lymphomas in a single-center, phase 2a study. METHODS: We conducted an international, phase 2, pivotal study of centrally manufactured tisagenlecleucel involving adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who were ineligible for or had disease progression after autologous hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation. The primary end point was the best overall response rate (i.e., the percentage of patients who had a complete or partial response), as judged by an independent review committee. RESULTS: A total of 93 patients received an infusion and were included in the evaluation of efficacy. The median time from infusion to data cutoff was 14 months (range, 0.1 to 26). The best overall response rate was 52% (95% confidence interval, 41 to 62); 40% of the patients had complete responses, and 12% had partial responses. Response rates were consistent across prognostic subgroups. At 12 months after the initial response, the rate of relapse-free survival was estimated to be 65% (79% among patients with a complete response). The most common grade 3 or 4 adverse events of special interest included cytokine release  syndrome (22%), neurologic events (12%), cytopenias lasting more than 28 days (32%), infections (20%), and febrile neutropenia (14%). Three patients died from  disease progression within 30 days after infusion. No deaths were attributed to tisagenlecleucel, cytokine release syndrome, or cerebral edema. No differences between response groups in tumor expression of CD19 or immune checkpoint-related  proteins were found. CONCLUSIONS: In this international study of CAR T-cell therapy in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in adults, high rates of durable responses were produced with the use of tisagenlecleucel. (Funded by Novartis; JULIET ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02445248 .)"

"40. Adv Biol Regul. 2019 Jan;71:79-87. doi: 10.1016/j.jbior.2018.11.006. Epub 2018 Nov 22.","Sulforaphane as anticancer agent: A double-edged sword? Tricky balance between effects on tumor cells and immune cells.","Sulforaphane (SFN) is a naturally occurring isothiocyanate derived from cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli. It has been reported to inhibit the growth of a variety of cancers, such as breast, prostate, colon, skin, lung, gastric or bladder cancer. SFN is supposed to act primarily as an antioxidant due to the activation of the Nrf2-Keap1 signaling pathway. This enhances the activity of phase II detoxifying enzymes and the trapping of free radicals. Finally, SFN induces cell cycle arrest or apoptosis of tumor cells. Here, we discuss effects of SFN on the immune defense system. In contrast to the situation in tumor cells, SFN acts pro-oxidatively in primary human T cells. It increases intracellular ROS levels and decreases GSH, resulting in inhibition of T cell activation and T cell effector functions. Regarding the use of SFN as an "anticancer agent" we conclude that SFN could act as a double-edged sword. On the one hand it reduces carcinogenesis, on the other hand it blocks the T cell-mediated immune response,  the latter being important for immune surveillance of tumors. Thus, SFN could also interfere with the successful application of immunotherapy by immune checkpoint inhibitors (e.g. CTLA-4 antibodies and PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies) or CAR T cells. Therefore, a combination of SFN with T cell-mediated cancer immunotherapies does not seem advisable."

"41. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2019 Jan;25(1):26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2018.09.024. Epub 2018 Sep 26.","American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Pharmacy Special Interest Group Survey on Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy Administrative, Logistic, and Toxicity Management Practices in the United States.","Administration of immune effector cell (IEC) therapy is a complex endeavor requiring extensive coordination and communication of various healthcare and administrative teams. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are the most established IEC therapy available. As of July 2018 two commercial gene therapy products, tisagenlecleucel and axicabtagene ciloleucel, have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. To gain insight into the infrastructure and practices across the country, the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Pharmacy Special Interest Group conducted an electronic survey on the current administrative, logistic, and toxicity management practices of CAR T  cell therapy across the United States. This survey consists of 52 responses from  institutions of varying sizes, most of which (∼80%) had previous investigational  experience with CAR T cell therapy. Absorbing the energy of this exciting new treatment has challenged hematopoietic cell transplant programs across the country to strengthen department infrastructure, develop new committees and policies, and implement significant education to ensure safe administration. With the variety of experience with CAR T cell therapy, we hope this survey can contribute to the existing published literature and provide support and consensus to established and developing IEC programs and practice guidelines."

"42. Biotechnol Adv. 2019 Jan - Feb;37(1):239-245. doi: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.12.002. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Standardizing CAR-T therapy: Getting it scaled up.","CAR-T therapy, grafting the specificity of a monoclonal antibody onto a T cell to target certain cancer cells, has been recognized as a promising therapeutic approach for cancer control as evidenced by the two CAR-T products proved by FDA  in 2017. However, the unique heterogeneity of CAR-T therapy has restricted its production in a limited number of institutions and made it a boutique oncotherapy. By reviewing outstanding issues surrounding the commercial scale production of CAR-T therapy, we conclude that achieving mass production of CAR-T  therapy without sacrificing its personalized nature is a worldwild challenge for  making CAR-T a key element in the next generation of precision medicine, which can be achieved by standardizing 7 prominent factors that collectively determine  the scale of CAR-T manufacturing."

"43. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):38-44. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0346-9. Epub 2018 Dec 6.","Cell-based immunotherapy approaches for multiple myeloma.","Despite the arrival of novel therapies, multiple myeloma (MM) remains incurable and new treatment options are needed. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are genetically modified T cells that express a CAR directed against specific tumour  antigens. CAR T cells are able to kill target tumour cells and may result in long-lasting immune responses in vivo. The rapid development of CAR technologies  has led to clinical trials in haematological cancers including MM, and CAR T cells might evolve into a standard treatment in the next few years. Only small patient cohorts with relapsed or refractory disease have so far been investigated, but promising preliminary results with high response rates have been  obtained in phase I clinical trials with B cell maturation antigen (BCMA),  CD19, CD38 and κ-light-chain CAR T cells. Additional preclinical studies on CD38  and SLAMF7-CAR T cells in MM treatment yielded preclinical results that merit further investigation. Beyond the T cell approach, recent studies have focussed on CAR natural killer (NK) cells in order to increase the reactivity of these effector cells. Finally, to investigate the targeting of intracellular antigens,  cellular therapies based on engineered T cell receptors (TCRs) are in development. In this review, we discuss results from preclinical and early-phase  clinical trials testing the feasibility and safety of CAR T cell administration in MM, as well as early studies into approaches that utilise CAR NK cell and genetically modified TCRs."

"44. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):54-56. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0342-0. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of anti-EGFRvIII chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.","EGFRvIII targeted chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has recently been reported for treating glioblastomas (GBMs); however, physiology-based MRI parameters have not been evaluated in this setting. Ten patients underwent multiparametric MRI at baseline, 1, 2 and 3 months after CAR-T therapy. Logistic  regression model derived progression probabilities (PP) using imaging parameters  were used to assess treatment response. Four lesions from "early surgery" group demonstrated high PP at baseline suggestive of progression, which was confirmed histologically. Out of eight lesions from remaining six patients, three lesions with low PP at baseline remained stable. Two lesions with high PP at baseline were associated with large decreases in PP reflecting treatment response, whereas other two lesions with high PP at baseline continued to demonstrate progression.  One patient didn't have baseline data but demonstrated progression on follow-up.  Our findings indicate that multiparametric MRI may be helpful in monitoring CAR-T related early therapeutic changes in GBM patients."

"45. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):79-87. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0341-1. Epub 2018 Nov 15.","High-affinity CD16-polymorphism and Fc-engineered antibodies enable activity of CD16-chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for cancer therapy.","BACKGROUND: CD16-chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) T cells recognise the Fc-portion of therapeutic antibodies, which can enable the selective targeting of different antigens. Limited evidence exists as to which CD16-CAR design and antibody partner might be most effective. We have hypothesised that the use of high-affinity CD16 variants, with increased Fc-terminus antibody affinity, combined with Fc-engineered antibodies, would provide superior CD16-CAR T cell efficacy. METHODS: CD16-CAR T (wild-type or variants) cells were co-cultured with Panc-1 pancreatic cancer, Raji lymphoma or A375 melanoma cells in the presence or absence of anti-CD20, anti-MCSP, wild-type or the glycoengineered antibody variants. The endpoints were proliferation, activation, and cytotoxicity in vitro. RESULTS: The CD16 158 V variant of CD16-CAR T cells showed increased cytotoxic activity against all the tested cancer cells in the presence of the wild-type antibody directed against MCSP or CD20. Glycoengineered antibodies enhanced CD16-CAR T cell activity irrespective of CD16 polymorphisms as compared with the  wild-type antibody. The combination of the glycoengineered antibodies with the CD16-CAR 158 V variant synergised as seen by the increase in all endpoints. CONCLUSION: These results indicate that CD16-CAR with the high-affinity CD16 variant 158 V, combined with Fc-engineered antibodies, have high anti-tumour efficacy."

"46. Br J Cancer. 2019 Jan;120(1):26-37. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0325-1. Epub 2018 Nov 9.","Teaching an old dog new tricks: next-generation CAR T cells.","Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) refers to the therapeutic use of T cells. T cells genetically engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) constitute the most clinically advanced form of ACT approved to date for the treatment of CD19-positive leukaemias and lymphomas. CARs are synthetic receptors that are able to confer antigen-binding and activating functions on T cells with the aim of therapeutically targeting cancer cells. Several factors are essential for CAR  T cell therapy to be effective, such as recruitment, activation, expansion and persistence of bioengineered T cells at the tumour site. Despite the advances made in CAR T cell therapy, however, most tumour entities still escape immune detection and elimination. A number of strategies counteracting these problems will need to be addressed in order to render T cell therapy effective in more situations than currently possible. Non-haematological tumours are also the subject of active investigation, but ACT has so far shown only marginal success rates in these cases. New approaches are needed to enhance the ability of ACT to  target solid tumours without increasing toxicity, by improving recognition, infiltration, and persistence within tumours, as well as an enhanced resistance to the suppressive tumour microenvironment."

"47. Cancer Immunol Res. 2019 Jan;7(1):100-112. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0307. Epub 2018 Nov 5.","Phase I Trial of Autologous CAR T Cells Targeting NKG2D Ligands in Patients with  AML/MDS and Multiple Myeloma.","NKG2D ligands are widely expressed in solid and hematologic malignancies but absent or poorly expressed on healthy tissues. We conducted a phase I dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a single infusion of NKG2D-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, without lymphodepleting conditioning in subjects with acute myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome or  relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Autologous T cells were transfected with a  γ-retroviral vector encoding a CAR fusing human NKG2D with the CD3ζ signaling domain. Four dose levels (1 × 106-3 × 107 total viable T cells) were evaluated. Twelve subjects were infused [7 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 5 multiple myeloma]. NKG2D-CAR products demonstrated a median 75% vector-driven NKG2D expression on CD3+ T cells. No dose-limiting toxicities, cytokine release syndrome, or CAR T cell-related neurotoxicity was observed. No significant autoimmune reactions were noted, and none of the ≥ grade 3 adverse events were attributable to NKG2D-CAR T cells. At the single injection of low cell doses used in this trial, no objective tumor responses were observed. However, hematologic parameters transiently improved in one subject with AML at the highest dose, and  cases of disease stability without further therapy or on subsequent treatments were noted. At 24 hours, the cytokine RANTES increased a median of 1.9-fold among all subjects and 5.8-fold among six AML patients. Consistent with preclinical studies, NKG2D-CAR T cell-expansion and persistence were limited. Manufactured NKG2D-CAR T cells exhibited functional activity against autologous tumor cells in vitro, but modifications to enhance CAR T-cell expansion and target density may be needed to boost clinical activity."

"48. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 1;25(1):358-368. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1211. Epub 2018 Nov 13.","Preventing Lck Activation in CAR T Cells Confers Treg Resistance but Requires 4-1BB Signaling for Them to Persist and Treat Solid Tumors in Nonlymphodepleted Hosts.","PURPOSE: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown promise against solid tumors, but their efficacy has been limited, due in part, to immunosuppression by CD4+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs). Although lymphodepletion is commonly used  to deplete Tregs, these regimens are nonspecific, toxic, and provide only a narrow window before Tregs repopulate hosts. Importantly, CARs have also been shown to inadvertently potentiate Tregs by providing a source of IL2 for Treg consumption. We explored whether disruption of the IL2 axis would confer efficacy against solid tumors without the need for lymphodepletion. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We developed second- (CD28z) and third- (CD28-4-1BBz) generation CARs targeting EGFRvIII. To eliminate secretion of IL2, 2 amino acid substitutions were introduced in the PYAP Lck-binding motif of the CD28 domain (ΔCD28). We evaluated CARs against B16 melanomas expressing EGFRvIII. RESULTS: CD28z CARs failed to engraft in vivo. Although 4-1BB addition improved expansion, CD28-4-1BBz CARs required lymphodepletion to treat solid tumors. CARs  deficient in Lck signaling, however, significantly retarded tumor growth without  a need for lymphodepletion and this was dependent on inclusion of 4-1BB. To evaluate CAR vulnerability to Tregs, we lymphodepleted mice and transferred CARs  alone or with purified Tregs. Cotransfer with Tregs abrogated the efficacy of CD28-4-1BBz CARs, whereas the efficacy of ΔCD28-4-1BBz CARs remained unperturbed. CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of lymphodepletion, CARs targeting solid tumors are hindered by Treg immunosuppression and poor persistence. Here, CARs were modified to circumvent Treg suppression and to simultaneously improve in vivo engraftment. Modified CARs treated solid tumors without a need for lymphodepletion."

"49. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Jan 1;25(1):29-34. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1379. Epub 2018 Oct 15.","Plasma Exchange Can Be an Alternative Therapeutic Modality for Severe Cytokine Release Syndrome after Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cell Infusion: A Case Report.","BACKGROUND: Tumor immunotherapy with chimeric antigen receptor-T cells (CAR-T) is a promising new treatment for B-cell malignancies and has produced exciting results. However, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is the most significant toxicity associated with this treatment and can be life-threatening. CASE PRESENTATION: A 23-year-old male patient had been diagnosed with relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia. The patient was recruited into  our CAR-T clinical trial, and 1 × 106/kg of engineered anti-CD19 CAR-T cells was  administered. After infusion of CAR-T cells (day 0), the patient underwent a typical CRS reaction, with increases in fever, muscle soreness, and inflammatory  cytokines. He was treated with antiallergic and antipyretic drugs, glucocorticoids, and tocilizumab (4 mg/kg, days 3 and 5). However, CRS was not under control, and his condition rapidly deteriorated. He was transferred to the  intensive care unit, where dexamethasone 10 mg q6h was administered, and plasma exchange was performed, with 3,000 mL of plasma replaced by fresh frozen plasma per day for 3 consecutive days. His symptoms gradually improved, and the CRS-related symptoms were relieved. Additionally, a bone marrow smear showed no lymphoblast cells, and minimal residual disease was negative on day 28. The patient was eventually discharged in a normal condition. CONCLUSIONS: CRS is caused by an exaggerated systemic immune response, potentially resulting in organ damage that can be fatal. Although therapeutic plasma exchange is not included in CRS management guidelines, this case shows that plasma exchange is feasible in at least some patients with severe CRS."

"50. EBioMedicine. 2019 Jan;39:173-181. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.12.013. Epub 2018 Dec 20.","Modeling anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy in humanized mice with human immunity and autologous leukemia.","BACKGROUND: Adoptive immunotherapy using T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 has produced remarkable clinical outcomes. However, much of the mechanisms of action, such as the development of memory responses and sources of immune cytokines, remain elusive largely due to the challenge of characterizing human CAR T cell function in vivo. The lack of a suitable in vivo model also hinders the development of new CAR T cell therapies. METHODS: We established a humanized mouse (hu-mouse) model with a functional human immune system and genetically-matched (autologous) primary acute B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) that permits modeling of CD19-targeted CAR T cell therapy in immunocompetent hosts without allogeneic or xenogeneic immune responses. FINDINGS: Anti-CD19 CAR T cells were detected in blood of leukemic hu-mice with kinetics and levels similar to those seen in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy. The levels of CAR T cells were correlated inversely with the burden of leukemia cells and positively with the survival times in anti-CD19 CAR T cell-treated leukemic hu-mice. Infusion of anti-CD19 CAR T cells also resulted in rapid production of T cell- and monocyte/macrophage-derived cytokines and an increase in frequency of regulatory T cells as reported in clinical studies. INTERPRETATION: These results provide a proof-of-principle that this novel preclinical model has the potential to be used to model human CAR T cell therapy  and facilitate the design of new CARs with improved antitumor activity."

"51. EBioMedicine. 2019 Jan;39:612-620. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.12.004. Epub 2018 Dec 10.","Contemporary patient-tailored treatment strategies against high risk and relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.","Recurrence of disease due to chemotherapy drug resistance remains a major obstacle to a more successful survival outcome of multiple myeloma (MM). Overcoming drug resistance and salvaging patients with relapsed and/or refractory (R/R) MM is an urgent and unmet medical need. Several new personalized treatment  strategies have been developed against molecular targets to overcome this drug resistance. There are several targeted therapeutics with anti-MM activity in clinical pipeline, including inhibitors of anti-apoptotic proteins, monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, bispecific antibodies, fusion proteins, and various cell therapy platforms. For example, B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-specific CAR-T cell platforms showed promising activity in heavily pretreated R/R MM patients. Therefore, there is renewed hope for high-risk as well as R/R MM patients in the era of personalized medicine."

"52. Exp Ther Med. 2019 Jan;17(1):739-747. doi: 10.3892/etm.2018.7015. Epub 2018 Nov 27.","Mesothelin-targeted second generation CAR-T cells inhibit growth of mesothelin-expressing tumors in vivo.","Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and mesothelioma are renowned for being diagnosed at a late stage and poor prognosis. Although surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy have yielded successful outcomes, the improvement on the survival rate of NSCLC and mesothelioma have been less marked. Recently, adoptive immunotherapy, particularly chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy demonstrated promise for improving the survival of acute lymphoblastic leukemia with minimum toxicity. However, its application in solid tumors still warrants in-depth investigations and multiple consistent trial results, particularly in eliminating 'off-tumor' toxicity. To explore CAR-T therapy in NSCLC and mesothelioma, second-generation CAR-T cells were constructed targeting mesothelin (MSLN), which is abundant in NSCLC and mesothelioma but is under expressed in normal tissues. The second-generation design incorporated co-stimulatory CD28 and 4-1BB signaling domains to enhance the proliferation. Following the successful analysis of CAR-T cells by flow cytometry, cytotoxicity experiments were performed using the LDH kit to verify the killing effect of CAR-T cells on target cells. Otherwise, the in vivo killing tumor activity of MSLN CAR-T cells was verified by constructing a mouse model using tumor-derived cells from patients to inoculate the mice. When the effector-to-target ratio is >0.5:1, CAR-T MSLN cells exhibited significantly higher ability to kill tumor cells than T cells. In in vivo experiments, mice whose tail vein was injected with CAR-T MSLN cells demonstrated significantly slower tumor growth. Without continuous administration, both groups became gradually synchronized in growth of tumor size, which suggests that the persistence of CAR-T cells is an important issue in preclinical studies."

"53. Future Oncol. 2019 Jan;15(3):305-317. doi: 10.2217/fon-2018-0388. Epub 2018 Oct 3.","The rationale for combination therapy in patients with aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma: ten questions.","Rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone immunochemotherapy remains standard of care for first-line treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). High-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation is offered to most relapsing/refractory patients who respond to salvage therapy. This Q&A review evaluates recommended management strategies for  second and subsequent lines of therapy in patients with DLBCL, outlining the relative efficacies of currently available options including novel agents such as ibrutinib and CAR-T cells. The combination of pixantrone and rituximab is currently under investigation as a second-line treatment for patients ineligible  for stem cell transplantation, while pixantrone monotherapy is the only therapeutic option approved for multiply relapsed and refractory DLBCL beyond the second line at this time."

"55. J Med Genet. 2019 Jan;56(1):10-17. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2018-105405. Epub 2018  Jul 20.","Bacteria-free minicircle DNA system to generate integration-free CAR-T cells.","BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells engineered with lentiviral  and retroviral vectors have been successfully applied to treat patients with B cell malignancy. However, viral integration in T cells has the potential risk of  mutagenesis, and viral vector production demands effort and is costly. Using non-integrative episomal vector such as minicircle vector to generate integration-free CAR-T cells is an attractive option. METHODS AND RESULTS: We established a novel method to generate minicircle vector  within a few hours using simple molecular biology techniques. Since no bacteria is involved, we named these vectors bacteria-free (BF) minicircle. In comparison  with plasmids, BF minicircle vector enabled higher transgene expression and improved cell viability in human cell line, stem cells and primary T cells. Using BF minicircle vector, we generated integration-free CAR-T cells, which eliminated cancer cells efficiently both in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSION: BF minicircle vector will be useful in basic research as well as in clinical applications such as CAR-T and gene therapy. Although the transgene expression of minicircle vector lasts apparently shorter than that of insertional lentivirus, multiple rounds of BF minicircle CAR-T cell infusion could eliminate  cancer cells efficiently. On the other hand, a relatively shorter CAR-T cell persistence provides an opportunity to avoid serious side effects such as cytokine storm or on-target off-tumour toxicity."

"56. J Med Genet. 2019 Jan;56(1):4-9. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2018-105422. Epub 2018 Jul 3.","Applications and advances of CRISPR-Cas9 in cancer immunotherapy.","Immunotherapy has emerged as one of the most promising therapeutic strategies in  cancer. The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-associated protein 9 (CRISPR-Cas9) system, as an RNA-guided genome editing technology, is triggering a revolutionary change in cancer immunotherapy. With its versatility and ease of use, CRISPR-Cas9 can be implemented to fuel the  production of therapeutic immune cells, such as construction of chimeric antigen  receptor T (CAR-T) cells and programmed cell death protein 1 knockout. Therefore, CRISPR-Cas9 technology holds great promise in cancer immunotherapy. In this review, we will introduce the origin, development and mechanism of CRISPR-Cas9. Also, we will focus on its various applications in cancer immunotherapy, especially CAR-T cell-based immunotherapy, and discuss the potential challenges it faces."

"58. Lancet Oncol. 2019 Jan;20(1):31-42. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(18)30864-7. Epub 2018 Dec 2.","Long-term safety and activity of axicabtagene ciloleucel in refractory large B-cell lymphoma (ZUMA-1): a single-arm, multicentre, phase 1-2 trial.","BACKGROUND: Axicabtagene ciloleucel is an autologous anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. In the previous analysis of the ZUMA-1 registrational study, with a median follow-up of 15·4 months (IQR 13·7-17·3), 89  (82%) of 108 assessable patients with refractory large B-cell lymphoma treated with axicabtagene ciloleucel achieved an objective response, and complete responses were noted in 63 (58%) patients. Here we report long-term activity and  safety outcomes of the ZUMA-1 study. METHODS: ZUMA-1 is a single-arm, multicentre, registrational trial at 22 sites in the USA and Israel. Eligible patients were aged 18 years or older, and had histologically confirmed large B-cell lymphoma-including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma, and transformed follicular lymphoma-according to the 2008 WHO Classification of Tumors of Hematopoietic and  Lymphoid Tissue; refractory disease or relapsed after autologous stem-cell transplantation; an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1; and had previously received an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody containing-regimen and an anthracycline-containing chemotherapy. Participants received one dose of axicabtagene ciloleucel on day 0 at a target dose of 2 × 106 CAR T cells per kg of bodyweight after conditioning chemotherapy with intravenous fludarabine (30 mg/m2 body-surface area) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 body-surface area) on days -5, -4, and -3. The primary endpoints were safety for  phase 1 and the proportion of patients achieving an objective response for phase  2, and key secondary endpoints were overall survival, progression-free survival,  and duration of response. Pre-planned activity and safety analyses were done per  protocol. ZUMA-1 is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02348216. Although the registrational cohorts are closed, the trial remains open, and recruitment to extension cohorts with alternative endpoints is underway. FINDINGS: Between May 19, 2015, and Sept 15, 2016, 119 patients were enrolled and 108 received axicabtagene ciloleucel across phases 1 and 2. As of the cutoff date of Aug 11, 2018, 101 patients assessable for activity in phase 2 were followed up for a median of 27·1 months (IQR 25·7-28·8), 84 (83%) had an objective response,  and 59 (58%) had a complete response. The median duration of response was 11·1 months (4·2-not estimable). The median overall survival was not reached (12·8-not estimable), and the median progression-free survival was 5·9 months (95% CI 3·3-15·0). 52 (48%) of 108 patients assessable for safety in phases 1 and 2 had grade 3 or worse serious adverse events. Grade 3 or worse cytokine release syndrome occurred in 12 (11%) patients, and grade 3 or worse neurological events  in 35 (32%). Since the previous analysis at 1 year, additional serious adverse events were reported in four patients (grade 3 mental status changes, grade 4 myelodysplastic syndrome, grade 3 lung infection, and two episodes of grade 3 bacteraemia), none of which were judged to be treatment related. Two treatment-related deaths (due to haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis and cardiac  arrest) were previously reported, but no new treatment-related deaths occurred during the additional follow-up. INTERPRETATION: These 2-year follow-up data from ZUMA-1 suggest that axicabtagene ciloleucel can induce durable responses and a median overall survival of greater  than 2 years, and has a manageable long-term safety profile in patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma. FUNDING: Kite and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Therapy Acceleration Program."

"59. Oncogene. 2019 Jan;38(4):533-548. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0449-z. Epub 2018 Aug 29.","STAT3 inhibition induces Bax-dependent apoptosis in liver tumor myeloid-derived suppressor cells.","Immunosuppressive myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) subvert antitumor immunity and limit the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T). Previously, we reported that the GM-CSF/JAK2/STAT3 axis drives liver-associated MDSC (L-MDSC) proliferation and blockade of this axis rescued antitumor immunity. We extended these findings in our murine liver metastasis (LM) model, by treating tumor-bearing mice with STAT3 inhibitors (STATTIC or BBI608) to further our understanding of how STAT3 drives L-MDSC suppressive function. STAT3 inhibition caused significant reduction of tumor burden as well as L-MDSC frequencies due to decrease in pSTAT3 levels. L-MDSC isolated from STATTIC or BBI608-treated mice had significantly reduced suppressive function. STAT3 inhibition of L-MDSC was associated with enhanced antitumor activity of CAR-T. Further investigation demonstrated activation of apoptotic signaling pathways in L-MDSC following STAT3 inhibition as evidenced by an upregulation of the pro-apoptotic proteins Bax, cleaved caspase-3, and downregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Accordingly, there was also a decrease of pro-survival markers, pErk and pAkt, and an increase in pro-death marker, Fas, with activation of downstream JNK and p38 MAPK. These findings represent a previously unrecognized link between STAT3 inhibition and Fas-induced apoptosis of MDSCs. Our findings suggest that inhibiting STAT3 has potential clinical application for enhancing the efficacy of CAR-T cells in LM through modulation of L-MDSC."

"60. Semin Immunopathol. 2019 Jan;41(1):59-68. doi: 10.1007/s00281-018-0721-x. Epub 2018 Oct 25.","Off-the-shelf cell therapy with induced pluripotent stem cell-derived natural killer cells.","Cell therapy is emerging as a very promising therapeutic modality against cancer, spearheaded by the clinical success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified T cells for B cell malignancies. Currently, FDA-approved CAR-T cell products are based on engineering of autologous T cells harvested from the patient, typically  using a central manufacturing facility for gene editing before the product can be delivered to the clinic and infused to the patients. For a broader implementation of advanced cell therapy and to reduce costs, it would be advantageous to use allogeneic "universal" cell therapy products that can be stored in cell banks and provided upon request, in a manner analogous to biopharmaceutical drug products.  In this review, we outline a roadmap for development of off-the-shelf cell therapy based on natural killer (NK) cells derived from induced pluripotent stem  cells (iPSCs). We discuss strategies to engineer iPSC-derived NK (iPSC-NK) cells  for enhanced functional potential, persistence, and homing."

"61. Semin Immunopathol. 2019 Jan;41(1):111-124. doi: 10.1007/s00281-018-0696-7. Epub  2018 Jul 13.","Cancer immune therapy for lymphoid malignancies: recent advances.","Immunotherapy has played an important part in improving the life of patients with lymphoproliferative diseases especially since the addition of rituximab to chemotherapy in the CD20-positive neoplasms in the 1990s. While this field of passive immunotherapy is continuously evolving, several breakthroughs will expand the treatment modalities to include more active immunotherapy. With the approval  of immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies for Hodgkin lymphoma and bispecific antibodies for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), activation of endogenous T cells already plays a role in several lymphoid malignancies. With the approval of cellular therapies with CAR-T cells for ALL and diffuse large B cell lymphoma, the impact of the manipulation of immune responses is taken even further. Vaccines are cellular therapies in the opposite end of the spectrum in terms of side effects, and while the big breakthrough is still to come, the prospect of a  very low-toxic immunotherapy which could be applicable also in premalignant states or in frail patients drives a considerable research activity in the area.  In this review, we summarize the mechanisms of action and clinical data on trials in the lymphoid neoplasms with chimeric antigen receptor T cells, bispecific antibodies, immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies, and antineoplastic vaccination therapy."

"62. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Dec 31;12:145-156. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.12.009. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Engineering and Design of Chimeric Antigen Receptors.","T cells engineered with chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) have emerged as a potent new class of therapeutics for cancer, based on their remarkable potency in blood cancers. Since the first clinical reports of their efficacy emerged 7 years ago, investigators have focused on the mechanisms and properties that make CARs effective or toxic, and their effects on T cell biology. Novel CAR designs coupled with improvements in gene transfer technology, incorporating advances in  gene editing, have the potential to increase access to engineered cell therapies, as well as improve their potency in solid tumors."

"63. Onco Targets Ther. 2018 Dec 24;12:193-204. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S190336. eCollection  2019.","Critical factors in chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T) therapy for solid tumors.","The success of chimeric antigen receptor-modified T-cell (CAR-T) therapy for B-cell lymphocyte malignancies targeting CD19 places it in a rapidly growing field in cancer immunotherapy for both hematological and solid tumors. However, the two types of tumor are quite different in the following respects. Solid tumors are characterized by complex vasculatures and matrix barriers that significantly affect T-cell functions and migration. Moreover, various immunosuppressive molecules expressed in the tumor microenvironment can impede T-cell activation, and the high metabolic rate of tumors competitively suppresses the metabolism of immune cells. All these factors will exert their influences on  the development of a cancer, which is a dynamic balance between the host's immune system and the tumor. At present, solid tumors are treated primarily by surgical  resection combined with radiotherapy and chemotherapy, a treatment process that is painful and not always effective. With advantages over traditional treatments, the recently developed CAR-T immunotherapy has been applied and has shown highly  promising results. Nevertheless, the complexity of solid tumors presents a great  challenge to this technique. This review focuses on elucidating the factors influencing the anti-tumor effects of CAR-T in the specific tumor environment, and hence exploring feasible approaches to overcome them."

"64. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Dec 6;12:134-144. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.11.010. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Development of a Novel Anti-CD19 Chimeric Antigen Receptor: A Paradigm for an Affordable CAR T Cell Production at Academic Institutions.","Genetically modifying autologous T cells to express an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) has shown impressive response rates for the treatment of CD19+ B cell malignancies in several clinical trials (CTs). Making this treatment available to our patients prompted us to develop a novel CART19 based on our own  anti-CD19 antibody (A3B1), followed by CD8 hinge and transmembrane region, 4-1BB- and CD3z-signaling domains. We show that A3B1 CAR T cells are highly cytotoxic and specific against CD19+ cells in vitro, inducing secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and CAR T cell proliferation. In vivo, A3B1 CAR T cells are able to fully control disease progression in an NOD.Cg-Prkdc scid Il2rd tm1Wjl /SzJ (NSG) xenograph B-ALL mouse model. Based on the pre-clinical data, we conclude that our CART19 is clearly functional against CD19+ cells, to a level similar to other CAR19s currently being used in the clinic. Concurrently, we describe the implementation of our CAR T cell production system, using lentiviral vector and CliniMACS Prodigy, within a medium-sized academic institution. The results of the validation phase show our system is robust and reproducible, while maintaining a  low cost that is affordable for academic institutions. Our model can serve as a paradigm for similar institutions, and it may help to make CAR T cell treatment available to all patients."

"65. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Nov 2;8(1):e1509173. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1509173. eCollection 2019.","DNAX-activating protein 10 co-stimulation enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells.","Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapies have shown remarkable efficacy in treating multiple types of hematological malignancies but are not sufficiently effective at treating solid tumors. NKG2D is a strong activating receptor for NK cells and a co-stimulatory receptor for T cells. NKG2D signal transduction depends on DNAX-activating protein 10 (DAP10). Here, we introduced the cytoplasmic domain of DAP10 into the second-generation CARs M28z and G28z to  generate M28z10 and G28z10, which target mesothelin (MSLN) and glypican 3 (GPC3), respectively. T cells expressing M28z10 or G28z10 showed enhanced and prolonged effector function against MSLN+ lung cancer or GPC3+ hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines in culture and secreted elevated levels of cytokines, including IL-2,  IFN-γ, granzyme B, and GM-CSF. In addition, M28z10 CAR-T cells showed greater anti-tumor activity than those expressing M28z in both A549 cell line xenografts  and human lung cancer patient-derived xenografts (PDX). Similarly, G28z10 exhibited higher efficacy in causing tumor regression than did G28z in hepatocellular carcinoma PDX. Therefore, our results show that DAP10 signaling contributes to the function of CAR-T cells in both lung cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma and can enhance the efficacy of CAR-T cells."

"66. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2018 Oct 17;12:19-31. doi: 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.10.006. eCollection 2019 Mar 15.","Surface-Engineered Lentiviral Vectors for Selective Gene Transfer into Subtypes of Lymphocytes.","Lymphocytes have always been among the prime targets in gene therapy, even more so since chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have reached the clinic. However, other gene therapeutic approaches hold great promise as well. The first  part of this review provides an overview of current strategies in lymphocyte gene therapy. The second part highlights the importance of precise gene delivery into  B and T cells as well as distinct subtypes of lymphocytes. This can be achieved with lentiviral vectors (LVs) pseudotyped with engineered glycoproteins recognizing lymphocyte surface markers as entry receptors. Different strategies for envelope glycoprotein engineering and selection of the targeting ligand are discussed. With a CD8-targeted LV that was recently used to achieve proof of principle for the in vivo reprogramming of CAR T cells, these vectors are becoming a key tool to genetically engineer lymphocytes directly in vivo." 
